What are the main objectives in each wave and the significance that is cultivated from each wave? Finally, the modern day wave has been met with a lot of criticism and skepticism, especially on social media. It is not uncommon to see and hear statements referring to there being no need for feminism in modern day. How does Feminism go beyond just policy or appearing equal on paper? What are some main objectives that could be found within the current Feminist wave and/or real life examples that demonstrate the need for Feminism. 


"His violence is justified as natural and inevitable: that is structure. A girl is made responsible for his violence: that is structure. A policeman who turns away because it is a domestic call: that is structure. A judge who talks about what she was wearing: that is structure." (Shaw, Lee). 


At present, we’re on the fourth wave of feminism. Before where we were, we had three different waves that focused on their environment and timeline. When I was reading The waves of feminism, and why people keep fighting over them, explained
by Constance Grady, I have realized the feminist movement aligns also with history. Although now we say it’s history, back then, it was their life, environment and something they have to face everyday. In the first wave of feminism, it was based on the suffrage movement such as voting rights and discrimination towards coloured women. Now that we think about it, contributing your voice towards your own country on a piece of paper wasn’t something they could even think of back in the past. When I think about this, it sounds ridiculous. Isn’t it? Same thing, now we don’t see two kinds of women bathrooms divided by the skin color. But back in 1848-1920, that was what they had to face everyday. I would be mad to see the place where they still have the bathroom divided by the skin color. 


Moving on to second, in the time period of 1963-1980, I would say it was focused on getting women's rights back from different categories but mostly focused on sexuality. For example, sexual equality and reproductive rights. Moving away from individuals’ current financial status, class, and especially the race, it was focused on women’s sexuality. I’ve found this part very fascinating because when I think about it, race itself is a very big issue to put it as second, but in this wave, they put women's sexuality first. 


In the third wave, starting from 1991, I considered this wave to be the happy wave. Where people started celebrating, recognizing the difference between races, classes, sexual orientations and respecting individuals’ preferences. If I compare this wave with the present, the fourth wave, I wish I could’ve been more involved in the feminist movement in the past. Because in fourth wave, when we have the accessible media everywhere where we can easily find “tainted” feminism movement, sexual orientation, and other deconstructed gender norms, that is creating confusion. For example, I’ve experienced hearing from one of the people I’ve met that said their pronoun but that was the gender neutral pronouns that I haven't heard in my life before. So from this, I think it’s overloading. They might think that I’m the rude person that does not understand or not involved in gender neutral issues, but sometimes it’s hard to keep on track.