Riffraff! Street rat! Would they think that If they look much closer Still, I can't play a prince here No, siree Gotta tell the truth I can't pretend Even if it means this dream will end Even if she walks away from me
Riffraff! Street rat! I don't buy that! If only they'd look closer Would they see a poor boy? No, siree They'd find out there's so much more to me
Aladdin Gotta keep one jump ahead of the breadline One swing ahead of the sword I steal only what I can't afford (And that's everything!) One jump ahead of the lawmen That's all, and that's no joke These guys don't appreciate I'm broke Crowd Riffraff! Street rat! Scoundrel! Aladdin Take that! Try a different tack, guys Crowd Rip him open! Round the back, guys Aladdin I can take a hint, gotta face the facts Could really use a friend or two Ladies Huh? Oh, it's sad Aladdin's hit the bottom He's become a one-man rise in crime I'd blame parents except he hasn't got 'em Aladdin Gotta eat to live, gotta steal to eat Tell you all about it when I got the time! One jump ahead of the slowpokes One skip ahead of my doom Next time gonna use a nom de plume One jump ahead of the hitmen One hit ahead of the flock I think I'll take a stroll around the block Crowd Stop, thief! Vandal! Abu! Scandal! Aladdin Let's not be too hasty Lady Still I think he's rather tasty Aladdin Gotta eat to live, gotta steal to eat Otherwise we'd get along Aladdin One jump ahead of the hoofbeats One hop ahead of the hump One trick ahead of disaster They're quick, but I'm much faster Here goes, better throw my hand in Wish me happy landin' All I gotta do is jump
Iago Forget about that guy Forget about the way you fell into his eyes Forget about his charms Forget about the way he held you in his arms Walking on air's obnoxious The thrills, the chills Will make you nauseous And you'll never get enough Just forget about love Forget about romance Forget about the way your heart begins to dance Then you feel the blush When he's spouting out some sentimental mush Love really is revolting It's even worse than when you're molting Enough of this fluff Just forget about love Jasmine I had almost forgotten the way it felt When he held out his hand for mine My heart all a-flutter Iago Oh, how I shudder Jasmine The first time we kissed Iago It won't be missed Forget about his touch Jasmine I can't forget about his touch Iago In the scheme of things It doesn't matter much Jasmine It matters so much Iago You're better on your own A meal becomes a banquet When you eat alone Jasmine Hmm-mm-mm-mm Both Love's filled with compromises Iago And don't you hate those big surprises? Jasmine A cozy rendez-vous Iago Oh, please! Jasmine Candlelight for two Iago Oh, geez! Jasmine Look, you're calling my bluff, I can't Iago Just Both Forget about love! Jasmine I can't forget about my heart Aladdin I can't forget about my heart Jasmine And how it felt to fall for you right from the start Aladdin I'm still falling Jasmine Whatever we may do Aladdin Whatever we may do Jasmine You are here for me, and I'll be there for you Aladdin I'll be there Both To wish, to want, to wander To find the sun through rain and thunder Aladdin A cozy rendez-vous Jasmine Yes, please! Aladdin Candlelight for two Iago Oh, geez! Enough is enough! Aladdin and Jasmine We can't forget about love!
Genie It's a big, bright, beautiful future Thank your lucky stars you're alive You got someone special to talk to A friend that you can trust for life You've been on your own with no family ties But those solo days are done You'll be two of a kind Spending quality time Together as father and son Buildin' model ships Takin' fishin' trips Workin' hand in hand Painting the palace, mowin' the sand First at ten to go With your daddy-o Once you break the ice You can postulate paternal advice See, you're travelling at the speed of life That's the theory of relatives! It's a fine, fantabulous future I see fruit on the family tree You'll be great as a grumpy ol' grandpa Bouncing babies on your knee! You can fall asleep on the comfy couch After playin' one-on-one Reamin' back-to-back Betcha wallop the Shaq Together as father and son Cassim May be a bumpy ride Aladdin We'll make it side by side Genie Good afternoon, I'll be your travel guide Move over, Aladdin Make room for dad! You got a whole new shoulder to cry on Take a chance now, give it a spin You've had chums for palin' around with But you never had a friend like him Put your checkered past behind you now No more living on the run Face the big, bright, beautiful future Together together, together, together as father and son
Sa'luk I remember a time When crime was sublime There was plenty of loot in the lair We'd plunder and pillage And ransack a village With nary a worry or care Then along came this king With his soft-hearted dream But he ratted us out in the end So rally the troops We were meant to regroup And return to our roots once again! Are you in or out? Gotta know without a doubt I'm the one you need for a dirty deed I'm the best; success is guaranteed Are you men or mice? Take a slice of my advice You want a fearless leader One that's strong and stout? Better vote for me Are you in or out? Thieves We used to be smart, yes Horrendously heartless In a ravaging raid we were rough We knew what we had To be blissfully bad Then Cassim brought this sensitive stuff And we strayed from the path Of our rigorous wrath Now we're taking a bath in the dust But we'll reclaim our winnings Our humble beginnings In turmoil and torture we trust Sa'luk Are you in or out? Double-crossers or devout? Put your faith in me; pretty soon you'll see I'm the prince of generosity Are you foe or friend? Here's the path I recommend You want a ride to fame? I've got the fastest route What's it gonna be? Are you in or out? Thieves We'll go robbing in all the right places From Agrabah dunes to Paris Imagine the fear on their faces When we drop by for cookies and tea Sa'luk Are you in or out? If you're with me, give a shout I'll lead you all the way into the glory days Thieves We'll begin a life of crime that pays Are you out or in? Make your choice now: sink or swim Sa'luk You can stick with me Or stay behind and pout What's it gonna be? Consider carefully Are you in or out?
Aladdin I can show you the world Shining, shimmering, splendid Tell me, princess, now when did You last let your heart decide I can open your eyes Take you wonder by wonder Over, sideways and under On a magic carpet ride A whole new world A new fantastic point of view No one to tell us no Or where to go Or say we're only dreaming Jasmine A whole new world A dazzling place I never knew But when I'm way up here It's crystal clear That now I'm in a whole new world with you Aladdin Now I'm in a whole new world with you Jasmine Unbelievable sights Indescribable feeling Soaring, tumbling, freewheeling Through an endless diamond sky A whole new world Aladdin Don't you dare close your eyes Jasmine A hundred thousand things to see Aladdin Hold your breath; it gets better Jasmine I'm like a shooting star I've come so far I can't go back to where I used to be Aladdin A whole new world Jasmine Every turn a surprise Aladdin With new horizons to pursue Jasmine Every moment red-letter Both I'll chase them anywhere There's time to spare Let me share this whole new world with you Aladdin A whole new world Jasmine A whole new world Aladdin That's where we'll be Jasmine That's where we'll be Aladdin A thrilling chase Jasmine A wondrous place Both For you and me
Aladdin I can show you the world Shining, shimmering, splendid Tell me, princess, now when did You last let your heart decide I can open your eyes Take you wonder by wonder Over, sideways and under On a magic carpet ride A whole new world A new fantastic point of view No one to tell us no Or where to go Or say we're only dreaming Jasmine A whole new world A dazzling place I never knew But now from way up here It's crystal clear That now I'm in a whole new world with you Aladdin Now I'm in a whole new world with you Jasmine Unbelievable sights Indescribable feeling Soaring, tumbling, freewheeling Through an endless diamond sky Jasmine A whole new world Aladdin Don't you dare close your eyes Jasmine A hundred thousand things to see Aladdin Hold your breath; it gets better Jasmine I'm like a shooting star I've come so far I can't go back to where I used to be Aladdin A whole new world Jasmine Every turn a surprise Aladdin With new horizons to pursue Jasmine Every moment red-letter Both I'll chase them anywhere There's time to spare Let me share this whole new world with you Aladdin A whole new world Jasmine A whole new world Aladdin That's where we'll be Jasmine That's where we'll be Aladdin A thrilling chase Jasmine A wondrous place Both For you and me
Make way for Prince Ali Say hey, it's Prince Ali Hey, clear the way in the old Bazaar Hey, you, let us through It's a brand new star Oh, come! Be the first on your block to meet his eye Make way, here he comes Ring bells! Bang the drums! You're gonna love this guy Prince Ali! Fabulous he, Ali Ababwa Show some respect Boy, genuflect! Down on one knee Now try your best to stay calm Brush up your Friday salaam Then come and meet his spectacular coterie! Prince Ali! Mighty is he, Ali Ababwa Strong as ten regular men, definitely He's faced the galloping hordes A hundred bad guys with swords Who sent those goons to their lords? Why, Prince Ali Fellas, he's got He's got seventy-five golden camels Woo, uh, huh, now the ladies, what he got? Purple peacocks, he's got fifty-three Uh, huh, uh, huh, uh, huh When it comes to exotic-type mammals Everybody, help me out! He's got a zoo I'm telling you, it's a world-class menagerie Prince Ali! Handsome is he, Ali Ababwa That physique! How can I speak Weak in my knees (yummy, boy!) So get on out in that square Adjust your veil and prepare To gawk and grovel and stare at Prince Ali He's got ninety-five white Persian monkeys (He's got the monkeys, a bunch of monkeys) And to view them he charges no fee (He's generous, so generous) He's got ten thousand servants and flunkies (Proud to work for him) They bow to his whim, love serving him They're just lousy with loyalty to Ali! Prince Ali! Prince A- We're waiting for you! We're not going till you go You can do it! There it is! Prince Ali! Amorous he, Ali Ababwa Heard your princess was hot! Where is she? And that, good people, is why He got all cute and dropped by With sixty elephants, llamas galore (For real?) With his bears and lions A brass band and more (What?) With his forty fakirs, his cooks, his bakers His birds that warble on key Make way For Prince Ali!
Jasmine You showed me the world When I was all locked up inside You reached out your hand And took me on a magic carpet ride One look at your smile And I could see the light Shining everywhere People like you don't come out of thin air Aladdin Oh, Jasmine You don't understand There is so much that you don't see Just think, if you can What growing up had to be like for me Your father's a man Who taught you who you are Mine was never there So how can you say I don't come out of thin air? Aladdin There's so much I want to know Jasmine You've got the chance to learn Aladdin If it means I'd have to go Jasmine I'll be right here when you return Our wedding can wait Aladdin I love you Jasmine I think it's worth this small delay Aladdin Maybe you're right Jasmine And won't it be great To have your father see our wedding day? Aladdin I've waited so long Jasmine It isn't too late Aladdin To learn the truth Both And now at last, we can finally say Jasmine Your father is really there Aladdin There's so much that we might share Jasmine And you'll finally learn Both You don't come out of thin air
Jafar, Jasmine Prince Ali, yes it is he, but not as you know him Read my lips and come to grips with reality Yes, meet a blast from your past Whose lies were too good to last Say hello to your precious Prince Ali! So Ali turns out to be merely Aladdin Just a con, need I go on, take it from me His personality flaws give me adequate cause To send him packing on a one-way trip so his prospects take a terminal dip His assets frozen, the venue chosen is in the ends of the Earth Salaam, ex-prince Ali!
Make way for Prince Ali Say hey, it's Prince Ali Hey, clear the way in the old Bazaar Hey you, let us through It's a bright new star Oh, come! Be the first on your block to meet his eye! Make way, here he comes Ring bells! Bang the drums! You're gonna love this guy Prince Ali! Fabulous he, Ali Ababwa Genuflect, show some respect Down on one knee Now, try your best to stay calm Brush up your Sunday salaam Then come and meet his spectacular coterie Prince Ali! Mighty is he, Ali Ababwa Strong as ten regular men, definitely He faced the galloping hordes A hundred bad guys with swords Who sent those goons to their lords? Why, Prince Ali He's got seventy-five golden camels Purple peacocks, he's got fifty-three When it comes to exotic-type mammals Has he got a zoo? I'm telling you, it's a world-class menagerie Prince Ali! Handsome is he, Ali Ababwa That physique! How can I speak Weak at the knee Well, get on out in that square Adjust your veil and prepare To gawk and grovel and stare at Prince Ali He's got ninety-five white Persian monkeys (He's got the monkeys, let's see the monkeys) And to view them he charges no fee (He's generous, so generous) He's got slaves, he's got servants and flunkies (Proud to work for him) They bow to his whim, love serving him They're just lousy with loyalty to Ali! Prince Ali! Prince Ali! Amorous he, Ali Ababwa Heard your princess was a sight lovely to see And that, good people, is why He got dolled up and dropped by With sixty elephants, llamas galore With his bears and lions A brass band and more With his forty fakirs, his cooks, his bakers His birds that warble on key Make way For Prince Ali!
Genie There's a party here in Agrabah There's excitement in the air People pouring in from near and far 'Cause Jasmine and Aladdin are gonna have a weddin' There's a party here in Agrabah Everybody will be there So if you're a pauper or a shah Do somethin' with your hair You mustn't wear an outfit that's naughty A turban that's unraveling just won't do No earrings that are tasteless or gaudy You're gonna look gorgeous when I get through There's a party here in Agrabah So I'm going to paint the town If you want to see what colors are Follow me around Aladdin's gettin' married, and it's gonna be The wedding of the century My buddy's gettin' married, and you're gonna see Just how much I can do You've heard of your safari bar mitzvahs You've all been to a luau, a sweet sixteen Well, none of them compare to what this is The food'll be disgusting, by evening you'll be busting There's a party here in Agrabah And it's got us all aglow If a street rat could've come so far Maybe I could do it Sure, there's nothin' to it! There's a party here in Agrabah But we're not sure that we'll go For although the bride is lah-dee-dah The groom is awfully low And now we take you down to the palace Where everyone has celebrated all night long Without Jafar and all of his malice Everybody's happy What could possibly go wrong? Thieves There's a party here in Agrabah And we're gonna rob 'em blind Cassim While they're all munching caviar Create a small disturbance, I'll sneak up from behind Iago There's a party here in Agrabah And the loot is pourin' in I like this wedding stuff so far Maybe if I'm pleasant, I'll get to keep a present Genie We've ordered just a few tasteful flowers The valets will carefully park for you The bridesmaids have been dressing for hours! Girls, you look just lovely and so grown-up, too There's a party here in Agrabah Guests are filling up the room But there's something missing...yes, ah ha! Sultan Where is the groom?
Cassim, Aladdin Thieves Congratulations, bub, you've joined the club And everybody here agrees We got the finest blend of nearly-honest men Welcome to the forty thieves! A fraternity of thugs that you can trust There's nothing up our eighty sleeves Got lotsa grub to share Pull up an easy chair Welcome to the forty thieves! Now you get to lie and cheat Never have to brush your teeth But we always aim to please Care for one another You'll never miss your mother Iago Oh, I love you guys Thieves Schemin' up a scam Out on the lam Takin' whatever we please And if you like to lurk You're gonna love this work Welcome to the forty thieves! Welcome to the forty thieves! Cassim Together we're the perfect team Larceny is in the genes Dare to share the family dream Iago Live a life of leisure Countin' all your treasure Thieves As an honorary member of the gang That no one alive ever leaves Ya gotta snatch and sneak Or else your future's bleak We got a lifetime contract that you're bound to keep You wanna save your skin You better fit right in Wel-wel-welcome to the Wel-wel-welcome to the Forty thieves!
Arabian nights Follow me to a place where incredible feats Are routine every hour or so Where enchantment runs rampant Yes, wild in the streets Open sesame, here we go Arabian nights Like Arabian days They tease and excite Take off and take flight They shock and amaze Arabian nights Like Arabian days More often than not Are hotter than hot In a lot of good ways Pack your shield, pack your sword You won't ever get bored Though get beaten or gored you might Come on down, stop on by Hop a carpet and fly To another Arabian night
Oh, imagine a land, it's a faraway place Where the caravan camels roam Where you wander among every culture and tongue It's chaotic, but, hey, it's home When the wind's from the East, and the sun's from the West And the sand in the glass is right Come on down, stop on by Hop a carpet and fly To another Arabian night As you wind through the streets at the fabled bazaars With the cardamom-cluttered stalls You can smell every spice While you haggle the price Of the silks and the satin shawls Oh, the music that plays as you move through a maze In the haze of your pure delight You are caught in a dance You are lost in the trance Of another Arabian night Arabian nights Like Arabian days More often than not are hotter than hot In a lot of good ways Arabian nights Like Arabian dreams This mystical land of magic and sand Is more than it seems There's a road that may lead you To good or to greed through The power your wishing commands Let the darkness unfold or find fortunes untold Well, your destiny lies in your hands Arabian nights Like Arabian days They seem to excite, take off and take flight To shock and amaze Arabian nights 'Neath Arabian moons A fool off his guard could fall and fall hard Out there on the dunes
Oh, I come from a land, from a faraway place Where the caravan camels roam Where it's flat and immense And the heat is intense It's barbaric, but, hey, it's home When the wind's from the East And the sun's from the West And the sand in the glass is right Come on down Stop on by Hop a carpet and fly To another Arabian night Arabian nights Like Arabian days More often than not Are hotter than hot In a lot of good ways Arabian nights 'Neath Arabian moons A fool off his guard Could fall and fall hard Out there on the dunes
Well, Ali Baba had them forty thieves Scheherazade had a thousand tales But, master, you're in luck 'cause up your sleeves You got a brand of magic never fails You got some power in your corner now Some heavy ammunition in your camp You got some punch, pizazz, yahoo and how See all you gotta do is rub that lamp And I'll say Mr. Aladdin, sir What will your pleasure be? Let me take your order Jot it down You ain't never had a friend like me Life is your restaurant And I'm your maitre d' Come on whisper what it is you want You ain't never had a friend like me Yes sir, we pride ourselves on service You're the boss The king, the shah Say what you wish It's yours! True dish How about a little more baklava? Have some of column "A" Try all of column "B" I'm in the mood to help you, dude You ain't never had a friend like me Can your friends do this Can your friends do that Can your friends pull this out their little hat Can your friends go, poof Hey, looky here Can your friends go, Abracadabra, let her rip And then make the sucker disappear So don't you sit there slack-jawed, buggy-eyed I'm here to answer all your midnight prayers You got me bona fide certified You got a genie for your charge d'affaires I got a powerful urge to help you out So what's your wish? I really wanna know You got a list that's three miles long, no doubt Well, all you gotta do is rub like so Mr. Aladdin, sir, have a wish or two or three I'm on the job, you big nabob You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never had a friend like me You ain't never had a friend like me!
Here I go, woo! Back up! Watch out! You done wound me up 'Bout to show you what I'm working with Well, Ali Baba, he had them forty thieves Scheherazade had a thousand tales But, master, you're in luck because up your sleeves You got a brand of magic never fails You got some power in your corner now Heavy ammunition in your camp You got some punch, pizazz, yahoo and how All you gotta do is rub that lamp And then I'll say Mr. - (man, what's your name) Whatever, what will your pleasure be Let me take your order I'll jot it down You ain't never had a friend like me Life is your restaurant And I'm your maitre d' Come whisper to me whatever it is you want You ain't never had a friend like me We pride ourselves on service You the boss The king, the shah Say what you wish It's yours! True dish How about a little more baklava? Have some of column "A" Try all of column "B" I'm in the mood to help you, dude You ain't never had a friend like me Oh, it's the big part Watch out, it's the big part, oh Can your friends do this? Can your friends do that? Can your friends pull this outta of their little hat? Can your friends go - I'm the genie of the lamp I can sing, rap, dance if you give me a chance, oh Don't sit there buggy-eyed I'm here to answer all your midday prayers You got me bona fide certified Got a genie for your charge d'affaires I got a powerful urge to help you out So what's your wish? I really wanna know You got a list that's three miles long, no doubt All you gotta do is rub like so Mr. (Aladdin), yes, one wish or two or three Well, I'm on the job, you big nabob You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never (ever) Had a (had a) Friend (friend) Like (like) me You ain't never had a friend like me
That's it! I've had it! I hate to be dramatic But it's time for me to fly the coop Terrific! Fine! I'm drawin' the line Before I wind up in a parrot soup! I was a fool to let you run the show I'm cuttin' ya loose, pal! Look out below! Arrividerci! C'est la vie! Hope all goes well! I'm lookin' out for me! Okay! I'm little Been playin' second fiddle And I don't get no respect I turn the other cheek But this busted beak Is the only thanks that I get! I never found a friend that I can trust They promise caviar And leave me eatin' dust! That's some reward for loyalty From here on in I'm lookin' out for me! Oh, I don't need nobody else I'll never fail I'll cover my own tail I can take care of myself! You know, it just don't pay To give a hoot I'm givin' all my heart What do I get? The boot! I'm through wit' dat I'm flappin' free From here on in I'm lookin' out for me!
GenieI parachuted down into the Taj Mahal I rollerbladed all along the great Great Wall! I even made the famous Leaning Tower fall But who was with me through it all? Nobody! The Moscow Circus hired me to fly trapeze On Mount Olympus won a race with Hercules It's easy when you're chased by killer bees Who said "gesundheit" when I sneezed So now I'm home Home again with you You chase the clouds away Whenever I am blue (You're always blue) And the pyramids I highly recommend There is nothing in the world quite like a friend Slept like a babe in Bombay on a bed of nails Moroccans loved my daring dance of seven veils I single-handedly I even saved the whales No one was there to hear my tales! In Acapulco joined a Mariachi band I rode the ragin' rapids down the Rio Grande Flew in an air balloon, but when I tried to land Nobody laughed, or lent a hand Without you, the Amazon is just a trickle Without you, the Sahara's not so hot Without you, Niagara Falls is just a leaky faucet And the QEII is just some yacht Now that I'm home Home again it's clear All I ever wanted Seems to be right here I've traveled east and west And now I'm back again And there's nothing in the world quite like a friend AladdinThere's nothing in the world JasmineNothing in the whole wide world AllThere is nothing in the world quite like a friend GenieNothin' in the whole wide world!
[Aladdin:] Gotta keep one jump ahead of the breadline One swing ahead of the sword I steal only what I can't afford (That's everything!) One jump ahead of the lawmen That's all, and that's no joke These guys don't appreciate I'm broke [Crowd:] Riffraff! Street rat! Scoundrel! Take that! [Aladdin:] Just a little snack, guys [Crowd:] Rip him open, take it back, guys [Aladdin:] I can take a hint, gotta face the facts You're my only friend, Abu! [Crowd:] Who? [Ladies:] Oh, it's sad Aladdin's hit the bottom He's become a one-man rise in crime I'd blame parents except he hasn't got 'em [Aladdin:] Gotta eat to live, gotta steal to eat Tell you all about it when I got the time! One jump ahead of the slowpokes One skip ahead of my doom Next time gonna use a nom de plume One jump ahead of the hitmen One hit ahead of the flock I think I'll take a stroll around the block [Crowd:] Stop, thief! Vandal! Outrage! Scandal! [Aladdin:] Let's not be too hasty [Lady:] Still I think he's rather tasty [Aladdin:] Gotta eat to live, gotta steal to eat Otherwise we'd get along [Aladdin:] One jump ahead of the hoofbeats (Vandal!) One hop ahead of the hump (Streetrat!) One trick ahead of disaster (Scandal!) They're quick, but I'm much faster (Take that!) Here goes, better throw my hand in Wish me happy landin' All I gotta do is jump
Riffraff! Street rat! I don't buy that! If only they'd look closer Would they see a poor boy? No, siree They'd find out there's so much more to me
Here comes a wave meant to wash me away A tide that is taking me under Swallowing sand, left with nothing to say My voice drowned out in the thunder But I won't cry And I won't start to crumble Whenever they try to shut me or cut me down I won't be silenced You can't keep me quiet Won't tremble when you try it All I know is I won't go speechless 'Cause I'll breathe when they try to suffocate me Don't you underestimate me 'Cause I know that I won't go speechless Written in stone, every rule, every word Centuries old and unbending Stay in your place, better seen and not heard Well, now that story's ending 'Cause I, I cannot start to crumble So come on and try Try to shut me and cut me down I won't be silenced You can't keep me quiet Won't tremble when you try it All I know is I won't go speechless Speechless! Let the storm in I cannot be broken No, I won't live unspoken 'Cause I know that I won't go speechless Try to lock me in this cage I won't just lay me down and die I will take these broken wings And watch me burn across the sky Hear the echo saying I won't be silenced Though you wanna see me tremble when you try it All I know is I won't go speechless Speechless! 'Cause I'll breathe when they try to suffocate me Don't you underestimate me 'Cause I know that I won't go speechless All I know is I won't go speechless Speechless!
I must admit, your parlor tricks are amusing I bet you've got a bunny under your hat Now here's your chance to get the best of me Hope your hand is hot C'mon, clown, let's see what you've got You try to slam me with your hardest stuff But your double whammy isn't up to snuff I'll set the record straight You're simply out of date You're only second rate! You think your cat's a meanie, but your tiger's tame You've got a lot to learn about the genie game So for your education I'll reiterate You're only second rate! Men cower at the power in my pinky My thumb is number one on every list But if you're not convinced that I'm invincible Put me to the test I'd love to lay this rivalry to rest Go ahead and zap me with the big surprise Snap me in a trap, cut me down to size I'll make a great escape It's just a piece of cake You're only second rate! You know, your hocus-pocus isn't tough enough And your mumbo-jumbo doesn't measure up Let me pontificate upon your sorry state You're only second rate! Zaba-caba-dabra! Granny's gonna grab ya! Alakazam-da-mus And this thing's bigger than the both of us So spare me your tremendous scare You look horrendous in your underwear And I can hardly wait to discombobulate I'll send ya back and packing in a shipping crate You'd make a better living with a spinning plate You're only second rate!