In olden times there was a king, who had behind his palace a
beautiful pleasure-garden in which there was a tree that bore golden
apples.  When the apples were getting ripe they were counted, but on
the very next morning one was missing.  This was told to the king,
and he ordered that a watch should be kept every night beneath the
tree.

The king had three sons, the eldest of whom he sent, as soon as night
came on, into the garden, but when midnight came he could not keep
himself from sleeping, and next morning again an apple was gone.

The following night the second son had to keep watch, but it fared no
better with him, as soon as twelve o'clock had struck he fell asleep,
and in the morning an apple was gone.

Now it came to the turn of the third son to watch, and he was quite
ready, but the king had not much trust in him, and thought that he
would be of less use even than his brothers, but at last he let him
go.  The youth lay down beneath the tree, but kept awake, and did not
let sleep master him.  When it struck twelve, something rustled
through the air, and in the moonlight he saw a bird coming whose
feathers were all shining with gold.

The bird alighted on the tree, and had just plucked off an apple,
when the youth shot an arrow at him.  The bird flew off, but the
arrow had struck his plumage, and one of his golden feathers fell
down.  The youth picked it up, and the next morning took it to the
king and told him what he had seen in the night.  The king called his
council together, and everyone declared that a feather like this was
worth more than the whole kingdom.  If the feather is so precious,
declared the king, one alone will not do for me, I must and will have
the whole bird.

The eldest son set out, and trusting to his cleverness thought that
he would easily find the golden bird.  When he had gone some distance
he saw a fox sitting at the edge of a wood so he cocked his gun and
took aim at him.  The fox cried, do not shoot me, and in return I
will give you some good counsel.  You are on the way to the golden
bird, and this evening you will come to a village in which stand two
inns opposite to one another.

One of them is lighted up brightly, and all goes on merrily within,
but do not go into it, go rather into the other, even though it looks
like a bad one.  How can such a silly beast give wise advice, thought
the king's son, and he pulled the trigger. But he missed the fox, who
stretched out his tail and ran quickly into the wood.

So he pursued his way, and by evening came to the village where the
two inns were, in one they were singing and dancing, the other had a
poor, miserable look.  I should be a fool, indeed, he thought, if I
were to go into the shabby tavern, and pass by the good one.  So he
went into the cheerful one, lived there in riot and revel, and forgot
the bird and his father, and all good counsels.

When many months had passed, and the eldest son did not come back
home, the second set out, wishing to find the golden bird.  The fox
met him as he had met the eldest, and gave him the good advice of
which he took no heed.  He came to the two inns, and his brother was
standing at the window of the one from which came the music, and
called out to him.  He could not resist, but went inside and lived
only for pleasure.

Again some time passed, and then the king's youngest son wanted to
set off and try his luck, but his father would not allow it. It is of
no use, said he, he will find the golden bird still less than his
brothers, and if a mishap were to befall him he knows not how to help
himself, he's not too bright at the best.  But at last, as he had no
peace, he let him go.

Again the fox was sitting outside the wood, and begged for his life,
and offered his good advice.  The youth was good-natured, and said,
be easy, little fox, I will do you no harm.  You shall not repent it,
answered the fox, and that you may get on more quickly, get up behind
on my tail.  And scarcely had he seated himself when the fox began to
run, and away he went over stock and stone till his hair whistled in
the wind.  When they came to the village the youth got off, he
followed the good advice, and without looking round turned into the
little inn, where he spent the night quietly.

The next morning, as soon as he got into the open country, there sat
the fox already, and said, I will tell you further what you have to
do.  Go on quite straight, and at last you will come to a castle, in
front of which a whole regiment of soldiers is lying, but do not
trouble yourself about them, for they will all be asleep and snoring.
Go through the midst of them staight into the castle, and go through
all the rooms, till at last you will come to a chamber where a golden
bird is hanging in a wooden cage.  Close by, there stands an empty
gold cage for show, but beware of taking the bird out of the common
cage and putting it into the fine one, or it may go badly with you.

With these words the fox again stretched out his tail, and the king's
son seated himself upon it, and away he went over stock and stone
till his hair whistled in the wind.

When he came to the castle he found everything as the fox had said.
The king's son went into the chamber where the golden bird was shut
up in a wooden cage, whilst a golden one stood by, and the three
golden apples lay about the room.  But, thought he, it would be
absurd if I were to leave the beautiful bird in the common and ugly
cage, so he opened the door, laid hold of it, and put it into the
golden cage.  But at the same moment the bird uttered a shrill cry.
The soldiers awoke, rushed in, and took him off to prison.  The next
morning he was taken before a court of justice, and as he confessed
everything, was sentenced to death.

The king, however, said that he would grant him his life on one
condition - namely, if he brought him the golden horse which ran
faster than the wind, and in that case he should receive, over and
above, as a reward, the golden bird.

The king's son set off, but he sighed and was sorrowful, for how was
he to find the golden horse.  But all at once he saw his old friend
the fox sitting on the road.  Look you, said the fox, this has
happened because you did not give heed to me.  However, be of good
courage.  I will give you my help, and tell you how to get to the
golden horse.  You must go straight on, and you will come to a
castle, where in the stable stands the horse.  The grooms will be
lying in front of the stable, but they will be asleep and snoring,
and you can quietly lead out the golden horse. But of one thing you
must take heed, put on him the common saddle of wood and leather, and
not the golden one, which hangs close by, else it will go ill with
you.  Then the fox stretched out his tail, the king's son seated
himself upon it, and away he went over stock and stone until his hair
whistled in the wind.

Everything happened just as the fox had said, the prince came to the
stable in which the golden horse was standing, but just as he was
going to put the common saddle upon him, he thought, such a beautiful
beast will be shamed if I do not give him the good saddle which
belongs to him by right.  But scarcely had the golden saddle touched
the horse than he began to neigh loudly. The grooms awoke, seized the
youth, and threw him into prison.

The next morning he was sentenced by the court to death, but the king
promised to grant him his life, and the golden horse as well, if he
could bring back the beautiful princess from the golden castle.

With a heavy heart the youth set out, yet luckily for him he soon
found the trusty fox.  I ought only to leave you to your ill-luck,
said the fox, but I pity you, and will help you once more out of your
trouble.  This road takes you straight to the golden castle, you will
reach it by eventide, and at night when everything is quiet the
beautiful princess goes to the bathing-house to bathe. When she
enters it, run up to her and give her a kiss, then she will follow
you, and you can take her away with you, only do not allow her to
take leave of her parents first, or it will go ill with you.

Then the fox stretched out his tail, the king's son seated himself
upon it, and away went the fox, over stock and stone, till his hair
whistled in the wind.

When he reached the golden castle it was just as the fox had said. He
waited until midnight, when everything lay in deep sleep, and the
beautiful princess was going to the bathing-house. Then he sprang out
and gave her a kiss.  She said that she would like to go with him,
but she asked him pitifully, and with tears, to allow her first to
take leave of her parents.  At first he withstood her prayer, but
when she wept more and more, and fell at his feet, he at last gave
in.  But no sooner had the maiden reached the bedside of her father
than he and all the rest in the castle awoke, and the youth was laid
hold of and put into prison.

The next morning the king said to him, your life is forfeited, and
you can only find mercy if you take away the hill which stands in
front of my windows, and prevents my seeing beyond it, and you must
finish it all within eight days.  If you do that you shall have my
daughter as your reward.

The king's son began, and dug and shoveled without stopping, but when
after seven days he saw how little he had done, and how all his work
was as good as nothing, he fell into great sorrow and gave up all
hope.  But on the evening of the seventh day the fox appeared and
said, you do not deserve that I should take my trouble about you, but
just go away and lie down to sleep, and I will do the work for you.

The next morning when he awoke and looked out of the window the hill
had gone.  The youth ran, full of joy, to the king, and told him that
the task was fulfilled, and whether he liked it or not, the king had
to hold to his word and give him his daughter.

So the two set forth together, and it was not long before the trusty
fox came up with them.  You have certainly got what is best, said he,
but the golden horse also belongs to the maiden of the golden castle.
How shall I get it, asked the youth. That I will tell you, answered
the fox, first take the beautiful maiden to the king who sent you to
the golden castle.  There will be unheard-of rejoicing, they will
gladly give you the golden horse, and will bring it out to you.
Mount it as soon as possible, and offer your hand to all in farewell,
last of all to the beautiful maiden.  And as soon as you have taken
her hand swing her up on to the horse, and gallop away, and no one
will be able to bring you back, for the horse runs faster than the
wind.

All was carried out successfully, and the king's son carried off the
beautiful princess on the golden horse.

The fox did not remain behind, and he said to the youth, now I will
help you to get the golden bird.  When you come near to the castle
where the golden bird is to be found, let the maiden get down, and I
will take her into my care.  Then ride with the golden horse into the
castle-yard, there will be great rejoicing at the sight, and they
will bring out the golden bird for you.  As soon as you have the cage
in your hand gallop back to us, and take the maiden away again.

When the plan had succeeded, and the king's son was about to ride
home with his treasures, the fox said, now you shall reward me for my
help.  What do you require for it, asked the youth.  When you get
into the wood yonder, shoot me dead, and chop off my head and feet.

That would be fine gratitude, said the king's son.  I cannot possibly
do that for you.

The fox said, if you will not do it I must leave you, but before I go
away I will give you a piece of good advice.  Be careful about two
things.  Buy no gallows'-flesh, and do not sit at the edge of any
well.  And then he ran into the wood.

The youth thought, that is a wonderful beast, he has strange whims,
who on earth would want to buy gallows'-flesh.  As for the desire to
sit at the edge of a well it has never yet occurred to me.

He rode on with the beautiful maiden, and his road took him again
through the village in which his two brothers had remained. There was
a great stir and noise, and, when he asked what was going on, he was
told that two men were going to be hanged.  As he came nearer to the
place he saw that they were his brothers, who had been playing all
kinds of wicked pranks, and had squandered all their wealth.  He
inquired whether they could not be set free.  If you will pay for
them, answered the people, but why should you waste your money on
wicked men, and buy them free. He did not think twice about it, but
paid for them, and when they were set free they all went on their way
together.

They came to the wood where the fox had first met them, and as it was
a hot day, but cool and pleasant within the wood, the two brothers
said, let us rest a little by the well, and eat and drink.  He
agreed, and whilst they were talking he forgot himself, and sat down
upon the edge of the well without thinking of any evil.  But the two
brothers threw him backwards into the well, took the maiden, the
horse, and the bird, and went home to their father.  Here we bring
you not only the golden bird, said they, we have won the golden horse
also, and the maiden from the golden castle.  Then was there great
joy, but the horse would not eat, the bird would not sing, and the
maiden sat and wept.

But the youngest brother was not dead.  By good fortune the well was
dry, and he fell upon soft moss without being hurt, but he could not
get out again.  Even in this strait the faithful fox did not leave
him, it came and leapt down to him, and upbraided him for having
forgotten its advice.  But yet I cannot give up, he said, I will help
you up again into daylight.  He bade him grasp his tail and keep
tight hold of it, and then he pulled him up. You are not out of all
danger yet, said the fox.  Your brothers were not sure of your death,
and have surrounded the wood with watchers, who are to kill you if
you let yourself be seen.  But a poor man was sitting upon the road,
with whom the youth changed clothes, and in this way he got to the
king's palace.

No one knew him, but the bird began to sing, the horse began to eat,
and the beautiful maiden left off weeping.  The king, astonished,
asked, what does this mean.  Then the maiden said, I do not know, but
I have been so sorrowful and now I am so happy.  I feel as if my true
bridegroom had come.  She told him all that had happened, although
the other brothers had threatened her with death if she were to
betray anything.

The king commanded that all people who were in his castle should be
brought before him, and amongst them came the youth in his ragged
clothes, but the maiden knew him at once and fell upon his neck.  The
wicked brothers were seized and put to death, but he was married to
the beautiful maiden and declared heir to the king.

But what happened to the poor fox.  Long afterwards the king's son
was once again walking in the wood, when the fox met him and said,
you have everything now that you can wish for, but there is never an
end to my misery, and yet it is in your power to free me, and again
he asked him with tears to shoot him dead and chop off his head and
feet.  So he did it, and scarcely was it done when the fox was
changed into a man, and was no other than the brother of the
beautiful princess, who at last was freed from the magic charm which
had been laid upon him.  And now they had all the happiness they
wanted as long as they lived.
