A poor wood-cutter lived with his wife and three daughters in
a little hut on the edge of a lonely forest.  One morning as he
was about to go to his work, he said to his wife, let our
eldest daughter bring me my dinner into the forest, or I shall
never get my work done, and in order that she may not miss
her way, he added, I will take a bag of millet with me and strew
the seeds on the path.  When, therefore, the sun was just above
the centre of the forest, the girl set out on her way with a
bowl of soup, but the field-sparrows, and wood-sparrows,
larks and finches, blackbirds and siskins had picked up the
millet long before, and the girl could not find the track.
Trusting to chance, she went on and on, until the sun sank and
night began to fall.  The trees rustled in the darkness, the
owls hooted, and she began to be afraid.  Then in the distance she
perceived a light which glimmered between the trees.  There
ought to be some people living there, who can take me in for the
night,
thought she, and went up to the light.  It was not long before
she came to a house the windows of which were all lighted up.  She
knocked, and a rough voice from inside cried, come in.  The
girl stepped into the dark entrance, and knocked at the door of
the room.  Just come in, cried the voice, and when she opened the
door, an old gray-haired man was sitting at the table, supporting
his face with both hands, and his white beard fell down over
the table almost as far as the ground.  By the stove lay three
animals, a hen, a cock, and a brindled cow.  The girl told her
story to the old man, and begged for shelter for the night.  The
man said,
               my pretty hen,
               my pretty cock,
               my pretty brindled cow,
               what are you saying now.
Duks, answered the animals, and that must have meant, we are
willing, for the old man said, here you shall have shelter
and food, go to the fire, and cook us our supper.  The girl
found in the kitchen abundance of everything, and cooked a
good supper, but had no thought of the animals.  She carried
the full bowl to the table, seated herself by the gray-haired man,
ate and satisfied her hunger.  When she had had enough, she said,
but now I am tired, where is there a bed in which I can lie down,
and sleep.  The animals replied,
               thou hast eaten with him,
               thou hast drunk with him,
               thou hast had no thought for us,
               so find out for thyself where thou canst pass the
               night.
Then said the old man, just go upstairs, and you will find a
room with two beds, shake them up, and put white linen on them,
and then I, too, will come and lie down to sleep.  The girl
went up, and when she had shaken the beds and put clean sheets
on, she lay down in one of them without waiting any longer for
the old man.  After some time the gray-haired man came, held his
candle over the girl and shook his head.  When he saw that she
had fallen into a sound sleep, he opened a trap-door, and let her
down into the cellar.
Late at night, the wood-cutter came home, and reproached his
wife for leaving him to hunger all day.  It is not my fault,
she replied, the girl went out with your dinner, and must have
lost herself, but surely she will come back to-morrow.  The
wood-cutter, however, arose before dawn to go into the forest, and
requested that the second daughter should take him his dinner
that day.  I will take a bag with lentils, said he, the seeds
are larger than millet, the girl will see them better, and
can't lose her way.  At dinner-time, therefore, the girl took
out the food, but the lentils had disappeared.  The birds of the
forest had picked them up as they had done the day before,
and had left none.  The girl wandered about in the forest
until night, and then she too reached the house of the old man,
was told to go in, and begged for food and a bed.  The man with
the white beard again asked the animals,
               my pretty hen,
               my pretty cock,
               my pretty brindled cow,
               what are you saying now.
The animals again replied 'duks, and everything happened just
as it had happened the day before.  The girl cooked a good meal,
ate and drank with the old man, and did not concern herself about
the animals, and when she inquired about her bed they answered,
               thou hast eaten with him,
               thou hast drunk with him,
               thou hast had no thought for us,
               so find out for thyself where thou canst pass
               the night.
When she was asleep the old man came, looked at her, shook his
head, and let her down into the cellar.
On the third morning the wood-cutter said to his wife, send our
youngest child out with my dinner to-day, she has always been good
and obedient, and will stay in the right path, and not rove about
like her sisters, the wild bumble-bees.  The mother did not
want to do it, and said, am I to lose my dearest child, as well.
Have no fear, he replied, the girl will not go astray.  She is
too prudent and sensible.  Besides I will take some peas with me,
strew them about.  They are still larger than lentils, and will
show her the way.  But when the girl went out with her basket on
her arm, the wood-pigeons had already got all the peas in their
crops, and she did not know which way she was to turn.  She was
full of sorrow and never ceased to think how hungry her father
would be, and how her good mother would grieve, if she did
not go home.  At length when it grew dark, she saw the light and
came to the house in the forest.  She begged quite prettily to
be allowed to spend the night there, and the man with the white
beard again asked his animals,
               my pretty hen,
               my pretty cock,
               my pretty brindled cow,
               what are you saying now.
Duks, said they.  Then the girl went to the stove where the
animals were lying, and petted the cock and hen, and stroked
their smooth feathers with her hand, and caressed the brindled
cow between her horns, and when, in obedience to the old man's
orders, she had made ready some good soup, and the bowl was
placed upon the table, she said, am I to eat as much as I want,
and the good animals to have nothing.  Outside is food in plenty,
I will look after them first.  So she went and brought some
barley and stewed it for the cock and hen, and a whole armful
of sweet-smelling hay for the cow.  I hope you will like it,
dear animals, said she, and you shall have a refreshing draught
in case you are thirsty.  Then she fetched a bucketful of water,
and the cock and hen jumped on to the edge of it and dipped
their beaks in, and then held up their heads as the birds do when
they drink, and the brindled cow also took a hearty draught.  When
the animals were fed, the girl seated herself at the table by
the old man, and ate what he had left.  It was not long before
the cock and the hen began to thrust their heads beneath
their wings, and the eyes of the cow likewise began to blink.
Then said the girl, ought we not to go to bed.
               My pretty hen,
               my pretty cock,
               my pretty brindled cow,
               what are you saying now.
The animals answered, duks,
               thou hast eaten with us,
               thou hast drunk with us,
               thou hast had kind thought for all of us,
               we wish thee good-night.
Then the maiden went upstairs, shook the feather-beds, and laid
clean sheets on them, and when she had done it the old man came
and lay down in one of the beds, and his white beard reached down
to his feet.  The girl lay down on the other, said her prayers,
and fell asleep.

She slept quietly till midnight, and then there was such a noise
in the house that she awoke.  There was a sound of cracking and
splitting in every corner, and the doors sprang open, and beat
against the walls.  The beams groaned as if they were being torn
out of their joints, it seemed as if the staircase were falling
down, and at length there was a crash as if the entire roof had
fallen in.  When, however, all grew quiet once more, and the girl
was not hurt, she stayed quietly lying where she was, and fell
asleep again.  But when she woke up in the morning with the
brilliancy of the sunshine, what did her eyes behold.  She was
lying in a vast hall, and everything around her shone with royal
splendor.  On the walls, golden flowers grew up on a ground of
green silk, the bed was of ivory, and the canopy of red velvet,
and on a chair close by, was a pair of slippers embroidered
with pearls.  The girl believed that she was in a dream, but
three richly clad attendants came in, and asked what orders she
would like to give.  If you will go, she replied, I will get up
at once and make ready some soup for the old man, and then I
will feed the pretty hen, and the pretty cock, and the pretty
brindled cow.  She thought the old man was up already, and looked
round at his bed.  He, however, was not lying in it, but a
stranger.

And while she was looking at him, and becoming aware that he was
young and handsome, he awoke, sat up in bed, and said, I am
a king's son, and was bewitched by a wicked witch, and made to
live in this forest, as an old gray-haired man.  No one was
allowed to be with me but my three attendants in the form
of a cock, a hen, and a brindled cow.  The spell was not to be
broken until a girl came to us whose heart was so good that she
showed herself full of love, not only towards mankind, but towards
animals - and that you have done, and by you at midnight we were
set free, and the old hut in the forest was changed back again
into my royal palace.  And when they had arisen, the king's son
ordered the three attendants to set out and fetch the father and
mother of the girl to the marriage feast.  But where are my two
sisters, inquired the maiden.  I have locked them in the cellar,
and to-morrow they shall be led into the forest, and shall live
as servants to a charcoal-burner, until they have grown kinder,
and do not leave poor animals to suffer hunger.
