No! Stop sinking! Don't make me put this down!  Put a muzzle on him!  I'm sorry, Appa.  Ransack his saddle. Who knows what treasures are stashed in there! He's tied up good. He can't hurt you.  What's your father gonna do when he finds out we lost a sand-sailer? Nothing. It's the one we stole from the Hami Tribe. Did you empty the saddle? That's it? Nothing but garbage!  Doesn't matter. We'll still make a profit from selling him to those beetle-headed merchants.  How's his temper? Uh, pretty good. Most of the time. I bet someone will pay a fortune for him in Ba Sing Se. All right, you've got a deal. Appa! Appa!   He's your problem now!  What? We need the shirshu spit darts!  Got 'em! Okay big fella, you're gonna take a nice little snoozle.  Appa! No. No!  We've gotta get rid of this one. He's too much trouble.  We could sell it for parts.  I understand you've had a rather hard time lately. That's too bad. You probably felt you had no choice but to behave outrageously, like a wild animal. But don't worry. You won't anymore. Because I am going to break you. Hungry? Don't worry, I'm going to feed you too. But not yet. First, I'm going to show you how you'll earn it.  Of course, when you perform, the hoops will be flaming. And if you are careful, you won't get burned. You're about to be sorry. It's obvious that whoever your previous owner was, he had no idea how to handle you properly.  I'm gonna to go get a bag of sizzle crisps. Stay here and stay away from that monster. Behave yourself or you'll regret it.  He's a difficult creature, stubborn and willful. I need more time with him. It's too risky right now.  Too risky? What are you talking about? This is the circus, home of fear and danger. I want the wind buffalo to perform tonight.  If you don't behave yourself, you'll regret it.   Let's go.  See you later, buddy.  Ladies and gentlemen, now for something truly special. A noble beast, so magnificent and rare, it hasn't been seen by human eyes in generations. I give you ... the wind buffalo! Up. Up, you insolent cow!   Run away! Get away from him!  Fabulous! Go, you can do it. Get back here, you stupid beast!  Choose well. A sky bison is a companion for life. I guess this means we'll always be together.  Always.  Ahhh! It's some kind of monster!  Uncle? What are you looking at? Is there something out there?  Uh, it's nothing. Go back to sleep.  Must have been some fight. Wait, let me see that. No, it couldn't be. Appa? Oh, no. It's gonna be okay, Appa. I have to leave, but I'm gonna be back soon with help. No sudden movements. He's been lost for a while and he looks like he's hurt. He's shy around people and scared. Stay low and stay quiet. I can't believe you found the Avatar's bison. Didn't you just see the Avatar a few days ago? Yes, so he can't be too far from here. It's our responsibility to get Appa back to him safely. This could be our most important mission yet. Give him some space! Appa, it's me, Suki. I'm a friend. I want to help you. You're hurt. We can help you feel better. And we can help you find Aang.   My, my, you're easy to find. It's really astounding my brother hasn't captured you yet. What do you want with us? Who are you? The Avatar's ?  Oh, I get it. Good one, Azula. If you're looking for the Avatar, you're out of luck.  I knew this was a waste of time. No Avatar, huh. Well, that's okay. Any friend of the Avatar is an enemy of mine!  Huh?  You're so colorful, it's making me nauseous.  You're not prettier than we are. Afraid of fire, I see. That's good. You should be.  Go, Appa! Fly away from here! Get out of here! You have to find Aang! We'll be okay!  Don't you know fans just make flames stronger?  Hello. I am Guru Pathik. I know I'm not the person you expected. And I didn't expect to be licked by a giant tongue just now. The world is full of surprises. Oh, dear. You've been through so much recently. Hurt and betrayed. So twisted up inside. You're still full of love. Ah. But fear has moved in where trust should be. I've been expecting you and the young Avatar for quite a long time. I had a vision many years ago of helping him. That's why I came to the Eastern Air Temple. Oh, your emotions are so turbulent. Like swirling storm clouds. Let the clouds in your mind be gentle, peaceful ones.  Someone looks very well rested, judging by your bed head.  I have prepared a message for Aang. May I attach it to your horn? You and the Avatar's energies are mixed. You have an unbreakable bond. By reading your energy, I can sense where Aang is. Funny, what invisible strings connect us all. I'll see you again, great beast.   What are you doing in my mouth? Momo, you need to be a little more sensitive to my boundaries.  Give up! You're completely surrounded!  Come on! Come on! Come on! My scrolls!  My staff! Yip yip!  Wait, my boomerang!  There's no time!  Oh, I see, so there's time to get your scrolls and time to get your staff, but no time for my boomerang?  That's correct!  Oh.  Sorry about your boomerang, Sokka.  I feel like I've lost part of my identity. Imagine if you lost your arrow, or Katara lost her ... hair loopies. Here's your produce, ponytail guy.  I used to be boomerang guy ...  Hey, Water Tribe money! I hope that's okay.  So long as it's money. Have a nice Avatar Day!  Avatar Day?  You guys are going to the festival, right? There's a holiday for the Avatar. Who knew?  Look! They made a giant Kyoshi float! And here comes Avatar Roku!  Having a huge festival in your honor is great, but frankly, it's just nice to be appreciated. And it's nice to appreciate their deep-fried festival food!   Aang, look! That's the biggest me I've ever seen! Now a torch, that's a nice prop. It's bright, dangerous ... smells manly. But I'm not sure I could carry it off.  Hey, what's that guy doing?  Down with the Avatar!   Where did you get these?  What does it matter where they came from?  Mmmm ... ... mmmm!  That party pooper's ruining Avatar Day!  That party pooper's my friend!   It's the Avatar himself!  It's going to kill us with its awesome Avatar powers! No, I'm not, I ...  I suggest you leave! You're not welcome here, Avatar! Why not? Aang helps people.  It's true! I'm on your side.  I find that hard to swallow, considering what you did to us in your past life! It was Avatar Kyoshi; she murdered our glorious leader, Chin the Great.  You think that I ... murdered someone?  We used to be a great society before you killed our leader. Now look at us!  Huh!  Aang would never do something like that. No Avatar would. And it's not fair for you all to question his honor!  Let's tell her what we all think of the Avatar's "honor"! Give me a chance to clear my name! The only way to prove your innocence is to stand trial.  I'll gladly stand trial! You'll have to follow all our rules. That includes paying bail. No problem.  How was I supposed to know they wouldn't take Water Tribe money? So some people don't like you, big deal! There's a whole nation of firebenders who hate you. Now let's bust you out of here! I can't.  Sure you can! A little swish-swish-swish! Airbending slice! And we're on our way!  I think what "Master Swish" is trying to say is that you're supposed to be out saving the world. You can't do that locked up in here.  I can't do that with people thinking I'm a murderer either. I need you guys to help prove my innocence. How're we gonna to do that? The crime happened over three hundred years ago.  That's okay, Sokka. For some reason, I thought you were an expert detective.  Well, I guess I could be classified as such.  Yeah! Back home, he was famous for solving the mystery of the missing seal jerky.  Everyone wanted to blame it on the polar leopard, but I figured out it was Old Man Jarko wearing polar leopard boots! See, a real eight hundred-pound polar leopard would have left much deeper tracks. Okay, I guess I am pretty good. So, you'll help me with my case?  Fine! But I'm going to need some new props. I'm ready. What? This is the crime scene. This is the footprint of the killer, Kyoshi. It was at sunset, 370 years ago today, that she emerged from the temple, and struck down Chin the Great. After that tragic day, we built this statue to immortalize our great leader. Feel free to appreciate it. This temple and this statue were cut from the same stone. And we know that the statue was built after Chin died.  So if they were built at the same time, that means–  Shhh! I wanna solve it! That means Kyoshi never set foot in this temple! That's a big hole in the mayor's story, but it's not enough to prove Aang's innocence. You're right. We need to go to Kyoshi Island.  Where did you get that? You got a bald head. Some nice tattoos. You're going to fit in real well around here.  Where's Aangy?  He couldn't be here, Koko.  I wanted to see Aangy ... Oyaji! Aang is in jail. The town of Chin says he murdered their leader in a past life. They say it was Kyoshi.  Kyoshi? That's crazy talk! I'll take you to her shrine. Maybe something there will help you clear her name.  So, uh ... what's Suki up to? Is she around? Actually, she and the other warriors left to fight in the war. You kids had a big impact on Suki. She said you inspired her and she wanted to help change the world.  Oh, well ... that's great. This temple was converted into a shrine to Kyoshi. The clerics tell us these relics are still connected to her spirit. That's her kimono.  She had exquisite taste. Please don't touch! These fans ... They were her weapons, no?  Also refrain from touching the fans.  These were her boots? Her feet must have been enormous!  The biggest of any Avatar.  Wait a minute ... big feet? Little footprint? There's no way–  Special outfit? Hat and pipe? These things mean anything to you?  You're right. I'm sorry. Please.  Aha! There's no way Kyoshi could have made that footprint. And therefore there is nothing linking her to the crime scene.  Brilliant, Sokka.   This girl you're talking about? She'll come around. You just gotta hang in there.  You think so? Sure. Yeah. You're a catch.  I don't know ... Hey! You're smart, handsome, funny. Not to mention you're the Avatar.  You guys are great.  Don't be afraid to tell her how you feel.  This piece is called "The Birth of Kyoshi". It was painted at sunrise on this day this island was founded. Why, it was today in fact, three hundred and seventy years ago.  Three hundred and seventy years? Wait, are you sure it was today? Oh, seeing how it's Kyoshi Day, yes, I'm sure.  This ceremony didn't take place at sunrise. It took place at sunset. Look at the shadows. They point east. So the sun must have been in the west. So what?  If Kyoshi was in the ceremony at sunset, she couldn't have been in Chin committing the crime. She has an alibi!  Honorable Mayor, we've prepared a solid defense for the Avatar. We did an investigation and found some very strong evidence. Evidence? Hmph! That's not how our court system works. Then how can I prove my innocence? Simple. I say what happened , then you say what happened, and then I decide who's right. That's why we call it justice. Because it's "just us."  Everyone loved Chin the Great because he was so great. Then the Avatar showed up and killed him, and that's how it happened.  The accused will now present its argument.  You can do it, Aang. Just remember the evidence.  Right ... evidence. Ladies and gentlemen ... I'm about to tell you what really happened. And I will prove it with facts. Fact number one. Uhhh ...  The footprint! Oh, yeah. You see ... I have very large feet. Furthermore ... your temple matches your statue. But ... I was in a painting at sunset. So, there you have it, I'm not guilty.  He's dead. Looks like you did some serious shopping. But where did you get the money?  Do you like your new teapot? To be honest with you , the best tea tastes delicious whether it comes in a porcelain pot or a tin cup. I know we've had some difficult times lately. We've had to struggle just to get by. But it's nothing to be ashamed of. There is a simple honor in poverty. There's no honor for me without the Avatar. Zuko ... Even if you did capture the Avatar, I'm not so sure it would solve our problems. Not now.  Then there is no hope at all. No, Zuko! You must never give in to despair. Allow yourself to slip down that road and you surrender to your lowest instincts. In the darkest times, hope is something you give yourself. That is the meaning of inner strength. Mayor Tong, I'd like for the court to hear one last testimony. I've already told you, it's just me and the accused. You can't call any witnesses! This isn't just any witness. I'm going to call ... Avatar Kyoshi herself!  What are you doing?  Well, she is Aang's past life. Maybe wearing her stuff will trigger something.  I do believe in the power of stuff.  This is a mockery of Chin Law!  Please! If you could just wait one more second, I'm sure Kyoshi will be here!  Hey, everybody! Avatar Kyoshi here.   This is ridiculous! For the murder of Chin the Great, this court finds the Avatar– I killed Chin the Conqueror. A horrible tyrant, Chin was expanding his army to all corners of the continent. When they came to the neck of the peninsula where we lived, he demanded our immediate surrender. I warned him that I would not sit passively while he took our home. But he did not back down. On that day, we split from the mainland. I created Kyoshi Island so my people could be safe from invaders.  So, what just happened?  Uhhh ... you kind of confessed. Sorry.  And I find you ... Guilty! Bring out the Wheel of Punishment! Uncle ... I thought a lot about what you said.  You did? Good, good. It's helped me realize something. We no longer have anything to gain by traveling together. I need to find my own way.  Wait!  The accused will now spin the Wheel of Punishment to determine his sentence. I said I would face justice, so I will.  Come on, torture machine! Eaten by bears! Razor pit!  Community service! Please stop on community service!  Looks like it's "boiled in oil." We've come to claim this village for the Fire Lord! Now show me your leader so I may ... dethrone him! That's him over there! Ahhh! You, Avatar, do something!  Gee, I'd love to help, but I'm supposed to be boiled in oil. There, community service! Now serve our community and get rid of those rhinos!  Rough Rhinos, to the town!  Boomerang! You do always come back! From now on, we'll celebrate a new Avatar Day in honor of the day Avatar Aang saved us from the Rough Rhino Invasion.  What is this? That's our new festival food! Un-fried dough. May we eat it and be reminded of how on this day the Avatar was not boiled in oil. Happy Avatar Day, everyone!  This is by far the worst town we've ever been to. Hey, look! A sword made out of a whale's tooth. Let me see that. This is a Water Tribe weapon. See if you can find anything else.  Did someone lose something?  No, we found something! It's burned. There was a battle! Water Tribe warriors ambushed a group of firebenders. The firebenders fought back, but the warriors drove them down this hill.  So, then what happened?  I don't know. The trail ends here.  Wait, look!   It's one of our boats! Is this dad's boat?  No, but it's from his fleet. Dad was here.   Aahh! See Prince Zuko, a moment of quiet is good for your mental well-being.  Look out! Argh!  Get back! We're after a stowaway!   There are no stowaways on my ship.  He's paralyzed. Only temporarily. The toxins will wear off in about an hour. But by then, he'll be in jail and I'll have my money.  But how did you find him on my ship?  My shirshu can smell a rat a continent away.  Well, I'm impressed. Very impressed.  Sokka. I'm coming with you. You're not old enough to go to war, Sokka, you know that.  I'm strong, I'm brave, I can fight! Please, Dad!  Being a man is knowing where you're needed the most. And for you right now, that's here, protecting your sister. I don't understand.  Someday you will. I'm gonna miss you so much.  Who's there?  Sokka?  Bato?   Who the what now?  Bato!  Sokka! Katara! It is so good to see you two. You've grown so much!   Hi, I'm Aang. Where's Dad? Is he here? No, he and the other warriors should be in the Eastern Earth Kingdom by now. This is no place for a reunion. Let's get inside. After I was wounded, your father carried me to this abbey. The sisters have cared for me ever since. Superior, these are Hakoda's children. They've been traveling with the Avatar. I found them by my boat. Young Avatar, it gives me great joy to be in your presence. Welcome to our abbey. Thank you, it's truly an honor to be here. If there's anything-  What smells so good, Bato?  The sisters craft ointments and perfumes. Perfume? Maybe we can dump some on Appa, because he stinks so much. Am I right?  You have your father's wit. Bato, it looks like home!  Everything's here, even the pelts!  Yeah, nothing's cozier than dead animal skins.  No way! Stewed sea prunes! Help yourself! Dad could eat a whole barrel of these things! Bato, is it true that you and dad lassoed an arctic hippo? It was your father's idea, he just dragged me along. Well, the hippo did the dragging!   Hey, I ride animals, too! There was this one time when I rode a giant eel and I-  So, who was it that came up with the Great Blubber Fiasco?  You knew about that? Everyone does!  What's that story?  It's a long one Aang, some other time.  You and Dad had so many hilarious adventures. Not all of which were hilarious at the time, but everything's funny in hindsight. Hey, Aang! Please put that down, it's ceremonial and very fragile.  Was it you or Dad that put an octopus on your head and convinced Gran-Gran you were a water spirit? Your dad wore the octopus, but I did the spooky voice.  Out of my way! Step aside, filth!  He means no offense! I'm certain you bathe regularly! I need to talk to you! Well, if it isn't my new friends: Angry Boy and Uncle Lazy. Your beast trashed my ship. You have to pay me back!  Well, I'd love to help you out, but I'm a little short on money. Drinks on me!  Money isn't what I had in mind. I need you to find someone.   What happened, your girlfriend run off on you? It's not the girl I'm after, it's the bald monk she's traveling with.  Whatever you say. If you find them, I'll consider the damage to my ship .  Heh, forget it.  Plus, we'll pay your weight in gold.  Make it your weight, and we gotta deal.  You got it!  Get on! There's something I should tell you kids. I'm expecting a message from your father.   Really?  When? Any day now. Your father said he'd send a message when they found the rendezvous point. If you wait until the message arrives, you can come with me, and see your father again. It's been over two years since we've seen Dad. That would be so incredible! Katara! I do really miss him, it would be great to see Dad.  It's been far too long, hasn't it? I'm not sure when word will arrive, but when it does- It would be great, but we can't. We have to take Aang to the North Pole first. Even if we do have time to wait for the message, who knows how far we'd have to travel. We don't have time for a long detour. I'm sure your father would understand, and be proud that his children are helping the Avatar. I can't believe they would leave me. I'm looking for Bato of the Water Tribe. Uhhh, I know Bato! Make sure he gets this!  It's the map to Sokka and Katara's dad! Hey everyone! Sorry I was gone so long.  Hey, Aang, I didn't notice you left. Yup, but now I'm back. Sure could go for some delicious sea prunes! Out for a bit of fresh air, are we? We're looking for someone. I hope it's not Miyuki Miyuki, did you get in trouble with the Fire Nation, again?  The Avatar's been through here. Let's keep moving. Aha! I caught you. You should be ashamed of yourself ... Littering in the courtyard.  I'm sorry, I'll take care of this.  This ship is sentimental to me. It was built by my father.  Is this the boat he took you ice dodging in? Yep! It's got the scar to prove it. Ha. How 'bout you Sokka? You must have some good stories from your first time ice dodging.  He never got to go. Dad left before he was old enough. Oh, I forgot you were too young. What's ice dodging? It's a rite of passage for young Water Tribe members. When you turn fourteen, your dad takes you- You know what, you're about to find out!  Why are we stopping? Because the girl must have spent a lot of time here. We have no time for this! Hey! Watch it!  Oh look, he likes you! Care to hear your fortune, handsome? At my age, there's really only one big surprise left, and I'd just as soon leave it a mystery. Ice dodging is a ceremonial test of wisdom, bravery, and trust. In our village, ice dodging was done by weaving a boat through a field of icebergs. How are we supposed to ice dodge without ice? You'll be dodging those. Sokka, you steer and call the shots, lead wisely. Katara, you secure the main sail. The winds can be brutal, so be brave. Aang, you control the jib. Without your steady hand, we all go down. Your position is about trust.  I know that. Why wouldn't I know that? I'm the Avatar; I know about trust.  For this is to be done right, I cannot help. You pass or fail on your own.  Aang, ease up on the jib. Katara, steady. Aang, less sail. Katara, give him room. Aang, helm to lee. Helm to lee! What does that even mean? Great job! There's no way through! We can make it.  Sokka, you've already proven yourself. Maybe we should- Aang, I'm gonna need air in that sail. Katara, I want you to bend as much water as you can between us and those rocks. Now!  The spirits of water bear witness to these marks. For Sokka, the Mark of the Wise. The same mark your father earned. For Katara, the Mark of the Brave. Your courage inspires us. And for Aang, the Mark of the Trusted. You are now an honorary member of the Water Tribe. I can't.  Of course you can!  No, you can't trust me.  Aang, what are you talking about?  A messenger gave this to me for Bato. You have to understand. I was afraid you would-  This is the map to our father! You had it the whole time? How could you? Well, you can go to the North Pole on your own. I'm going to find Dad.  Well, Sokka. I think you should-  Katara, are you with me?  I'm with you Sokka. Good luck. Okay. You too. Guess I should be moving on. That would be best. I'm an idiot, Momo.  We're getting close.   That wolf sounds so sad. It's probably wounded.  No, it's been separated from the pack. I understand that pain. It's how I felt when the Water Tribe warriors had to leave me behind. They were my family, and being apart from them was more painful than my wounds. Sokka? We need to go back. I wanna see Dad, but, helping Aang is where we're needed the most.  You're right.  Your father will understand, and I know he's proud of you. Thanks, Bato. I know where to go from here. Take this in case you want to find us. I'll leave a message at the rendezvous point. Looks like we're going alone, guys.  Avatar, you must leave!  Okay, I get it. Everybody wants me gone. A group of people came to the abbey looking for you. Who? A fierce looking woman with a horrible monster, and a young man with a scar. Zuko. The beast was using the scent of a necklace to follow you. A necklace? Katara!  So this is your girlfriend. No wonder she left, she's way too pretty for you.  Where is he? Where is the Avatar? We split up. He's long gone. How stupid do you think I am? Pretty stupid. Run! What are we supposed to do now?  It's seeking a different scent. Perhaps something that the Avatar held. What's it doing? It's just going in a circle.  Aang! Up!   Come on! Get up! I'm ... starting to get some feeling back! Ow. You've got something I want. That thing sees with its nose. Let's give him something to look at. The perfume?  June! No!  Uncle? I didn't see you get hit with the tongue. Shhh. So ... where do we go? We're getting you to the North Pole. Yeah, we've lost too much time as it is.  Don't you want to see your father? Of course we do, Aang. But, you're our family, too. And right now, you need us more. And we need you. I wish I could give you a little piece of home, Katara. Something to remind you ... I'll be okay. Still, just a little trinket. Maybe something like ... this?   Aang, how'd you get that? Zuko asked me to be sure I got it to you. Aw, that's so sweet of Zuko. Could you give him a kiss for me when you see him? Sure. Today's the day! Can you believe it? After all that time searching for a teacher, I'm finally starting earthbending! And this place, it's perfect, don't you think? Sokka? Oh, you're still sleeping, huh? Sorry. Goooood morning, earthbending student! Good morning, Sifu Toph.  Hey, you never called me Sifu Katara.  Well, if you think I should ... Sorry, Snoozles, we'll do our earthbending as quietly as we can.  So what move are you going to teach me first? Rock-a-lanche? The Trembler? Oh, maybe I could learn to make a whirlpool out of land!  Let's start with ... move a rock.  Sounds good, sounds good! The key to earthbending is your stance. You've got to be steady and strong. Rock is a stubborn element. If you're going to move it, you've got to be like a rock yourself. Like a rock. Got it. Good. Now the actual motion of this one is pretty simple. Okay, you ready to give it a try? I'm ready.   Rock beats airbender! I got you, Dad!  My beloved Lu Ten, I will see you again. Uncle ... you were unconscious. Azula did this to you. It was a surprise attack. Somehow, that's not so surprising.   I hope I made it the way you like it.   Good. That was very ... uhhh ... bracing.  So Uncle, I've been thinking. It's only a matter of time before I run into Azula again. I'm going to need to know more advanced firebending if I want to stand a chance against her. I know what you're going to say: she's my sister and I should be trying to get along with her.  No, she's crazy, and she needs to go down. It's time to resume your training. I don't understand what went wrong. He did it exactly the way you did. Maybe there's another way ... what if I came at the boulder from another angle? No. That's the problem. You've got to stop thinking like an airbender. There's no different angle, no clever solution, no trickety-trick that's going to move that rock. You've got to face it head on. And when I say head on, I mean like this ...  Whoa!  I've been training Aang for a while now. He really responds well to a positive teaching experience. Lots of encouragement and praise. Kind words. If he's doing something wrong, maybe a gentle nudge in the right direction. Thanks, Katara. A gentle nudge. I'll try that. Keep your knees high, Twinkle Toes! Rock-like! Rock-like! You're awfully cute, but unfortunately you're made of meat. Just a bit closer ... Gotcha! You are one lucky little meat creature. Lightning is a pure form of firebending, without aggression. It is not fueled by rage or emotion the way other firebending is. Some call lightning the cold-blooded fire. It is precise and deadly, like Azula. To perform the technique requires peace of mind. I see. That's why we're drinking tea, to calm the mind. Oh yeah, good point! I mean, yes. There is energy all around us. The energy is both yin and yang. Positive energy and negative energy. Only a select few firebenders can separate these energies. This creates an imbalance. The energy wants to restore balance, and in a moment the positive and negative energy come crashing back together, you provide release and guidance, creating lightning.  I'm ready to try it! Remember, once you separate the energy, you do not command it. You are simply its humble guide. Breathe first. This time we're going to try something a little different. Instead of moving a rock, you're going to stop a rock. Get in your horse stance! I'm going to roll that boulder down at you. If you have the attitude of an earthbender, you'll stay in your stance and stop the rock. Like this!  Sorry Toph, but are you really sure this is the way to teach Aang earthbending? I'm glad you said something. Actually there is a better way. This way, you'll actually have to sense the vibrations of the boulder to stop it. Thank you, Katara.  Yeah, thanks, Katara!  Heh. I guess I just panicked. I don't know what to say. There's nothing to say, you blew it! You had a perfect stance, and a perfect form. But when it came right down to it, you didn't have the guts!  I know. I'm sorry. Yeah, you are sorry! If you're not tough enough to stop the rock, then you can at least give it the pleasure of smashing you instead of jumping out of the way like a jelly-boned wimp! Now, do you have what it takes to face that rock like an earthbender? No, I don't think I do. Aang, it's no big deal. You'll take a break and try earthbending again when you're ready. Besides, you still have a lot of waterbending to work on. Okay? Yeah, that sounds good. Yeah, whatever, go splash around until you feel better. Why can't I do it? Instead of lightning it keeps exploding in my face ... like everything always does. I was afraid this might happen. You will not be able to master lightning until you have dealt with the turmoil inside you. What turmoil? Zuko, you must let go of your feelings of shame if you want your anger to go away. But I don't feel any shame at all. I'm as proud as ever. Prince Zuko, pride is not the opposite of shame, but its source. True humility is the only antidote to shame. Well, my life has been nothing but humbling lately. I have another idea. I will teach you a firebending move that even Azula doesn't know, because I made it up myself.  You probably think I deserve this, don't you? Look, I'm sorry I hunted you, but that's just the natural order of things. Big things eat smaller things, nothing personal. But this time it didn't work out that way. I admit it ... you're cute. Okay, you convinced me, if I get out of this alive, it's a karmically correct, vegetarian existence for me. No meat. Even though meat is so tasty. Hey, looks like my karma is already paying off! That's okay, I got it. Now, come back boomerang. You know this block you're having is only temporary, right? I don't want to talk about it. You do realize that's the problem, don't you? If you face this issue instead of avoiding it–  I know, I know, I know, I know! I get it, all right? I need to face it head on like a rock, but I just can't do it. I don't know why I can't, but I can't. Aang, if fire and water are opposites, then what's the opposite of air? I guess it's earth. That's why it's so difficult for you to get this. You're working with your natural opposite. But you'll figure it out. I know you will. Think fast! Excellent. You have the reflexes of a waterbending master. Thanks, Katara. Sifu Katara.  Fire is the element of power. The people of the Fire Nation have desire and will, and the energy to drive and achieve what they want. Earth is the element of substance. The people of the Earth Kingdom are diverse and strong. They are persistent and enduring. Air is the element of freedom. The Air Nomads detached themselves from worldly concerns and found peace and freedom. Also, they apparently had pretty good senses of humor! Water is the element of change. The people of the Water Tribe are capable of adapting to many things. They have a deep sense of community and love that holds them together through anything. Why are you telling me these things? It is important to draw wisdom from many different places. If you take it from only one place, it becomes rigid and stale. Understanding others, the other elements, and the other nations will help you become whole.  All this four elements talk is sounding like Avatar stuff. It is the combination of the four elements in one person that makes the Avatar so powerful. But it can make you more powerful, too. You see the technique I'm about to teach you is one I learned by studying the waterbenders. Aang, I found these nuts in your bag. I figured you wouldn't mind. And besides, even if you did, you're too much of a pushover to do anything about it. As a matter of fact, I don't mind. I'm happy to share anything I have. You know, I'm really glad you feel that way. Because I also have this great new nutcracker. Actually, I prefer if you didn't ... That's an antique, handcrafted by the monks ... It's a delicate instrument! It's not the only delicate instrument around here.   Ohm. Hey Aang, have you seen–  Meditating here! It's important. It's almost sundown and Sokka isn't back yet. I think we should search for him. We'll find him faster if we split up.  Okay, karma person or thing, whoever's in charge of this stuff. If I can just get out of this situation alive, I will give up meat and sarcasm. Okay? Ow! That's all I got. It's pretty much my whole identity. Sokka, the meat and sarcasm guy. But I'm willing to be Sokka, the veggies and straight talk fellow. Deal? Aang! Thank goodness! Have you got any meat? Sokka! Are you okay?  Aggh, stop, stop! You're going to pull my fingers off and I don't think the rest of me is coming! Hmmm ... I bet I can airbend you out of here.  Seriously Aang, I know you're new at it, but I could use a little earthbending here. How about it? I can't ... I can't do it. Well, if you can't earthbend me out of here, go get Toph. I can't do that either. You can't? Why not? It would just be really ... uncomfortable. Uncomfortable? Well, I wouldn't want you to feel uncomfortable ... Thanks, Sokka. This whole earthbending thing really has me confused. There's so much pressure. Everyone expects me to get it right away. It puts me in a really awkward position. Awkward position, I think I know the feeling. If I try, I fail. If I don't try, I'm never going to get it. I feel like I'm caught between a rock and a hard place. Hmmm ... how about that. Aang, this is my friend, Foo Foo Cuddlypoops. Foo Foo Cuddlypoops, Aang. Awww, what a cute name for a baby saber-tooth moose-lion cub. Really? He looks nothing like a saber-tooth moose-lion. It's hard to tell before their giant teeth and horns grow in. What are you doing out here little guy? Did you lose your mama? Waterbenders deal with the flow of energy. A waterbender lets their defense become their offense, turning their opponents' energy against them. I learned a way to do this with lightning. You can teach me to redirect lightning? If you let the energy in your own body flow, the lightning will follow it. You must create a pathway from your fingertips, up your arm to your shoulder, then down into your stomach. The stomach is the source of energy in your body. It is called the sea of chi. Only in my case it is more like a vast ocean. From the stomach, you direct it up again, and out the other arm. The stomach detour is critical. You must not let the lightning pass through your heart, or the damage could be deadly. You may wish to try a physical motion, to get a feel for the pathways' flow, like this. Now, are you focusing your energy? Can you feel your own chi flowing in, down, up, and out? I think so. Come on, you've got to feel the flow. Excellent! You've got it! Great, I'm ready to try it with real lightning! What, are you crazy? Lightning is very dangerous! I thought that was the point! You teaching me to protect myself from it! Yeah! But I'm not going to shoot lightning at you! If you're lucky, you will never have to use this technique at all! Well, if you won't help me, I'll find my own lightning.  Hey there, we found your cub! See, we have no problem with you! We're friendly! Aang, this is bad, you've got to get me out of here! This is really bad! Please Aang, you have to earthbend me out, there's no other way! Oh no! Woo-hoo, look at me! Please, don't leave me again. I won't. What are you doing here? Just enjoying the show. What? You were there the whole time? Pretty much. Why didn't you do something? Sokka was in trouble! I was in trouble! You could have gotten him out and helped us get away! Guess it just didn't occur to me.   Enough! I want my staff back!  Do it now! What? Earthbend, Twinkle Toes. You just stood your ground against a crazy beast. And even more impressive, you stood your ground against me. You've got stuff. But– Do it! You did it! You're an earthbender. I can't believe it!  Awww, this is a really wonderful, touching moment. So could you get me out of here so I can give you both a big, snuggly hug? No problem, Sokka! Actually, you should probably let me do that. You're still a little new to this. You might accidentally crush him. Yeah, no crushing, please. You found him!  The whole time, I was in that hole, not knowing if I was going to live or die. It makes a man to think about what's really important. I realized–  Hey Katara, look what I can do!  You did it! I knew you would! You tried the positive reinforcement, didn't you?  Yep, it worked wonders. Appa, Appa, I can earthbend now! The key is being completely rooted. Physically and mentally unmovable! You've always thrown everything you could at me! Well, I can take it, and now I can give it back! Come on, strike me! You've never held back before!  Look, the Inner Wall! I can't believe we finally made it to Ba Sing Se in one piece.  Hey, don't jinx it! We can still be attacked by some giant exploding Fire Nation spoon. Or find out the city's been submerged in an ocean full of killer shrimp!  You been hitting the cactus juice again? I'm just sayin', weird stuff happens to us.  Don't worry Aang, we'll find Appa.  It's such a big city.  He's a giant bison! Where could someone possibly hide him?  Oh.  Back in the city. Great.  What's the problem? It's amazing!  It's just a bunch of walls and rules. You wait, you'll get sick of it in a couple of days. I'm comin' for ya, buddy. He's here; I can feel it.  Hello, my name is Joo Dee! I have been given the great honor of showing the Avatar around Ba Sing Se. And you must be Sokka, Katara, and Toph! Welcome to our wonderful city. Shall we get started? Yes. We have information about the Fire Nation army that we need to deliver to the Earth King, immediately. Great! Let's begin our tour. And then I'll show you to your new home here. I think you'll like it!  Ugh! Maybe you missed what I said. We need to talk to the king about the War, it's important.  You're in Ba Sing Se now. Everyone is safe here. This is the Lower Ring. What's that wall for? Oh, Ba Sing Se has many walls! There are the ones outside protecting us, and the ones inside, that help maintain order. This is where our newest arrivals live, as well as our craftsman and artisans, people that work with their hands. It's so quaint and lively!  You do want to watch your step, though.  Why do they have all these poor people blocked off in one part of the city?  This is why I never came here before. I always heard it was so different from the way the monks taught us to live.  I just want our place to look nice, in case someone brings home a lady friend!   This city is a prison. I don't want to make a life here. Life happens wherever you are, whether you make it or not. Now come on, I found us some new jobs, and we start this afternoon! Look at them, firebenders living right under everyone's nose. Jet, you saw a man with a hot cup of tea. It doesn't prove he's a firebender. And what if he is, are we supposed to attack them‌? I thought we were starting over here, changing our ways. We are. When I get the evidence I need, I'll report them to the police and let them handle it. Ok‌ay? This is the Middle Ring of Ba Sing Se, home to the financial district, shops and restaurants, and the university. Yeah, we met a professor from the Ba Sing Se University. He took us to an ancient underground library where we discovered information about the war that is  !  Isn't history fascinating? Look, here's one of the oldest buildings in the Middle Ring, Town Hall! Is that woman deaf? She only seems to hear every other word I say. It's called "being handled". Get used to it.  Well, you certainly look like official tea servers. How do you feel‌?  Ridiculous. Uh, does this possibly come in a larger size?  I have extra string in the back. Have some tea while you wait!  Blech! This tea is nothing more than hot leaf juice!  Uncle, that's what all tea is.  How could a member of my own family say something so horrible?! We'll have to make some major changes around here. The Upper Ring is home to our most important citizens. Your house is not too far from here!  What's inside that wall? And who're the mean-looking guys in robes? Inside is the Royal Palace. Those men are agents of the Dai Li, the cultural authority of Ba Sing Se. They are the guardians of all our traditions!  Can we see the king now?  Oh no, one doesn't just pop in on the Earth King! Here we are! Your new home.  More good news! Your request for an audience with the Earth King is being processed, and should be put through in about month. Much more quickly than usual!  A month?  Six to eight weeks, actually.   Isn't it nice? I think you'll really enjoy it here.  I think we would enjoy it more if we weren't staying for so long. Can't we see the Earth King any sooner?  The Earth King is very busy running the finest city in the world! But he will see you as soon as time permits.  If we're going to be here for a month, we should spend our time looking for Appa.   I'd like to escort you anywhere you'd like to go.  We don't need a babysitter. Oh, I won't get in the way. And to leave you alone would make me a bad host! Where shall we start?  I'm sorry, but I haven't heard anything about a flying bison. I didn't even know there were any.  If someone wanted to sell a stolen animal without anyone knowing, where would they go‌?  Where's the black market? Who runs it? Come on, you know!  Uh ... That would be illegal. You'll have to leave now; your lemur is harassing my sparrowkeets. Hmm ... I've never seen any sandbenders or nomads around here. You should ask Professor Zei, he teaches the class on desert cultures.  Right. And which of your professors could we ask about the war with the Fire Nation?  Uh ...  I don't know. I'm not a political science student ... I've got to get to class. Well, I'm sorry no one has seen your bison. Why don't you go get some rest‌? Someone will be over with dinner, later.  Hey, come with me. You're the Avatar! I heard you were in town. I'm Pong.  Nice to meet you, Pong. So, Pong, what's goin' on with this city? Why is everyone here so scared here to talk about the war?  War? Scared? What do you mean?  I can feel you shaking.  Look, I'm just a minor government official. I've waited three years to get this house. I don't want go get into trouble.  Get in trouble with who?!  Shh, listen, you can't mention the War here. And whatever you do, stay away from the Dai Li. Would you like a pot of tea?  We've been working in a tea shop all day! I'm sick of tea!  "Sick of tea?" That's like being sick of breathing! Have you seen the spark rocks to heat up the water?  They're not there. You'll have to firebend, old man. Where're you going?  I borrowed our neighbors'. Such kind people. I got it! I know how we're going to see the Earth King!  How are we supposed to do that? "One doesn't just pop in on the Earth King!"  The king is having a party at the palace tonight for his pet bear. You mean, platypus bear? No, it just says 'bear'.  Certainly you mean his pet skunk bear.  Or his armadillo bear.  Gopher bear?  Just ... bear. This place ... is weird.  The palace will be packed. We can sneak in with the crowd!  Won't work.  Why not?  Well, no offense to you simple country folk, but a real society crowd will spot you a mile away. You've got no manners!   Excuse me? got no manners?! You're not exactly "lady fancy fingers!"  I learned proper society behavior and chose to leave it. You never learned anything. And frankly, it's a little too late.   Aha, but you learned it! You could teach us! Yeah, I'm mastering every element. How hard could manners be‌? Good evening, Mr. Sokka Water Tribe, Ms. Katara Water Tribe, Lord Momo of the Momo Dynasty. Your Momo-ness.   Avatar Aang, how do you do? Go on. Katara might be able to pull it off, but you two would be lucky to pass as busboys! But I feel so fancy!   Earth!  Fire!  Wow, you look beautiful. Don't talk to the commoners, Katara. First rule of society.  We'll get in the party, and then find a way to let you in through the side gate. Jet, we need to talk. What‌? Oh great, it's you guys. Where have you been‌? I could use some help with surveillance here! We've been talking, and we think you're becoming obsessed with this. It's not healthy.  Oh, really? You both think this? We came here to make a fresh start. But you won't let this go. Even though there is no real proof! Well, maybe if you'd help me!  Jet, you gotta stop this. Maybe you've forgotten why we need to start over. Maybe you've forgotten about how the Fire Nation left us all homeless‌. How they wiped out all the people we loved. If you don't want to help me, I'll get the evidence on my own.  This is the best tea in the city!  The secret ingredient is love.   I think you're due for a raise. I'm tired of waiting! These two men are firebenders! I know they're firebenders, I saw the old man heating his tea!  He works in a tea shop.  He's a firebender! I'm telling you!  Drop your swords, boy. Nice and easy.  You'll have to defend yourself. Then everyone will know. Go ahead, show them what you can do. You want a show? I'll give you a show! Invitation please.  I think this will do. No entry without an invitation. Step out of line, please.  Look, the Pangs and the Yum Soon Hans are waiting in there for us! I'm going to have to tell them who didn't let me in.  Step out of line please.  Sir, I'm sorry to bother you, but my cousin lost our invitations. She's blind. Do you think you could help us? Our family's inside and I'm sure they're very worried.  I am honored, please come with me. He's taking all the good stuff! Quiet! You don't know what I had to do to get seats this near the bear! It's beautiful, isn't it? By the way, I'm Long Feng. I'm a cultural minister to the king.  I'm Kwa Mai, and this is ... Dum. Ow!  Now where is your family? I'd love to meet them.  Uh ... I don't see them right now, but I'm sure we'll find them soon. Thanks for all your help. Don't worry, as your escort it would be dishonorable to abandon you ladies without finding your family first. We'll keep looking.   Where are they? Look, I came up with a back-up plan. We dress Momo like a ghost, okay? He flies by the guards, creating a distraction. Then, we blast a hole in the wall- Or we could go in as these guys. Toph said we might pass as busboys! Okay ... But remember that Momo ghost plan. I think it's a winner.   You must be getting tired of using those swords. Why don't you go ahead and firebend at me? Please, son, you're confused! You don't know what you're doing! Bet you wish he'd help you out with a little fire blast right now.  the one who needs help. You see that‌?! The Fire Nation is trying to silence me. It'll never happen.  Where are Toph and Katara? Forget about them! Just keep an eye out for the king.   I don't know what he looks like. You know, royal, flowing robe, fancy jewelry.  That could be anyone!  Another crab puff, please.   You found us!  I'd know your little footsteps anywhere, Twinkle Toes.  Thanks for letting us in!  Sorry, but the guy who escorted us in let us out of his sight!  What guy? What are you doing here? You have to leave immediately, or we will be in terrible trouble! Not until we see the king.  You don't understand. You must go. Aarrrh! Oh! Sorry. No, don't shout.  The Avatar! I didn't know the Avatar would be here.  You keep their attention while I look for the king.  Watch this, everybody! Drop your weapons. Arrest them! They're firebenders!  This poor boy is confused. We're just simple refugees.  This young man wrecked my tea shop, and assaulted my employees! It's true, sir. We saw the whole thing. This crazy kid attacked the finest tea maker in the city.  Oh, ho, ho. That's very sweet. Come with us, son. You don't understand! They're Fire Nation! You have to believe me! Aang! The Earth King! Greetings, Your Majesty. Hey, let me go! Avatar, it is a great honor to meet you. I am Long Feng, Grand Secretariat of Ba Sing Se and head of the Dai Li. I'd like to talk to you. Your friends will be waiting for us in the library. Why won't you let us talk to the king? We have information that could defeat the Fire Nation! The Earth King has no time to get involved with political squabbles and the day to day minutia of military activities. This could be the most important thing he's ever heard. What's most important to his royal majesty is maintaining the cultural heritage of Ba Sing Se. All his duties relate to issuing decrees on such matters. It's my job to oversee the rest of the city's resources, including the military.  So the king is just a figurehead.  He's your puppet!  Oh, no, no. His Majesty is an icon, a god to his people. He can't sully his hands with the hourly change of an endless war.  But we found out about a solar eclipse that will leave the Fire Nation defenseless. You could lead an invasion ...  Enough! I don't want to hear your ridiculous plan. It is the strict policy of Ba Sing Se that the War not be mentioned within the walls. Constant news of an escalating war will throw the citizens of Ba Sing Se into a state of panic. You have to believe me, they're firebenders! They won't stop until they win the War.  Calm down, you're safe now. Our economy would be ruined, our peaceful way of life – our traditions – would disappear. There's no war in Ba Sing Se. What're you talking about? Where do you think all the refugees come from? You can't hide it! In silencing talk of conflict, Ba Sing Se remains a peaceful, orderly utopia: the last one on Earth. There is no war within the walls. Here we are safe. Here, we are free. You can't keep the truth from all these people. They have to know.  I'll tell them! I'll make sure everyone knows!  Until now, you've been treated as our honored guest. But from now on, you will be watched every moment by Dai Li agents. If you mention the War to anyone, you will be expelled from the city. I understand you've been looking for your bison. It would be quite a shame if you were not able to complete your quest. Now, Joo Dee will show you to your home. Come with me, please.  What happened to Joo Dee? I'm Joo Dee. I'll be your host as long as you're in our wonderful city.  Great, you're back! What's for dinner?  We've got a few options. First; round nuts. And some kind of oval shaped nuts? And some rock-shaped nuts, that might just be rocks. Dig in!  Seriously ... what else you got? What was that? It's coming from over there!  Shouldn't we run away from huge booms? Not toward them? An earthbender! Let's go meet him! He looks dangerous, so we better approach cautiously.  Hello there! I'm Katara! What's your name?  Nice to meet you!  I just wanted to say hi. Hey! That guy's gotta be running somewhere. Maybe we're near a village? And I bet that village has a market!  Which means no nuts for dinner!  Hey! I worked hard to get those nuts! Yeah, I hate 'em too.  Great hat! I'll trade you some nuts for it.  Hey ... Hi, Mom. Where have you been, Haru? You're late! Get started on your chores.  Hey. You're that kid. Why did you run away before? Uh, you must have me confused with some other kid.  No, she doesn't. We saw you earthbending.  They saw you doing what?! They're crazy, Mom! I mean, look at how they're dressed. You know how dangerous that is! You know what would happen if they caught you earthbending!  Open up!  Fire Nation! Act natural!  What do you want? I've already paid you this week! The tax just doubled. And we wouldn't want an accident, would we? Fire is sometimes so hard to control. You can keep the copper ones.   Nice guy. How long has the Fire Nation been here? Five years. Fire Lord Ozai uses our town's coal mines to fuel his ships. They're thugs. They steal from us. And everyone here's too much of a coward to do anything about it.  Quiet, Haru! Don't talk like that.  But, Haru's an earthbender? He can help! Earthbending is forbidden. It's caused nothing but misery for this village! He must never use his abilities. How can you say that? Haru has a gift! Asking him not to earthbend is like asking me not to waterbend. It's a part of who we are.  You don't understand. I understand that Haru can help you fight back. What can the Fire Nation do to you that they haven't done already? They could take Haru away! Like they took his father. My mom said you can sleep here tonight. But you should leave in the morning. Thanks. I'll make sure Appa doesn't eat all your hay. I'm sorry about what I said earlier. I didn't know about your father. That's okay. It's funny, the way you were talking back in the store? It reminded me of him.  Thanks. My father was very courageous. When the Fire Nation invaded, he and the other earthbenders were outnumbered ten to one. But they fought back anyway. He sounds like a great man.  After the attack, they rounded up my father and every other earthbender, and took them away. We haven't seen them since. So that's why you hide your earthbending. Yeah. Problem is ... the only way I can feel close to my father now is when I practice my bending. He taught me everything I know.  See this necklace? My mother gave it to me. It's beautiful. I lost my mother in a Fire Nation raid. This necklace is all I have left of her. It's not enough, is it? No.  Help, help! The mine! Help me!  Ugh! It's not working! We have to get help! There's no time, pull harder!  Haru. There's a way you can help him.  I  Please, there's no one around to see you. It's the only way!  Haru! You did it!  It was so brave of Haru to use his earthbending to help that old man. You must have really inspired him. I guess so. Everyone should get some sleep, we're leaving at dawn.  Dawn?! Can't we sleep in for once?  Absolutely not! This village is crawling with Fire Nation troops. If they discover you're here, Aang, we'll be eating fireballs for breakfast. Goodnight.  I'd rather eat fireballs than nuts.     That's him! That's the earthbender!  They took him! They took Haru away!  What?  The old man turned him in to the Fire Nation - it's all my fault - I forced him into earthbending!  Slow down, Katara. When did this happen? Haru's mother said they came for him at midnight. Then it's too late to track him, he's long gone.  We don't need to track him. The Fire Nation is going to take me right to Haru.  And ... why would they do that?  Because they're going to arrest me for earthbending.  I thought you were crazy at first, Katara, but this might work. There are ventilation shafts throughout these mines. All Aang has to do is send an air current from that vent to this one right here. The boulder levitates and Fake earthbending.  Aang? Did you get all that?  Sure, sure. I got it. Do you remember your cue?  Yeah, yeah. Just relax. You're taking all the fun out of this.  By do you mean intentionally being captured by a group of ruthless firebenders?  Exactly! That's fun stuff!  Here they come! Get in your places!  Get out of my way, pipsqueak!   How dare you call me pipsqueak, you giant-eared cretin!  What did you call me?  A giant-eared cretin! Look at those things! Do herds of animals use them for shade?!   You better back off! Seriously, back off.  I will not back off! I bet elephants get together and make fun of how large your ears are! That's it! You're going down! I'll show you who's boss! Earthbending style! I said, earthbending style!  That lemur! He's earthbending!  No, you idiot, it's the girl! Oh. Of course. I'll hold her. You've got twelve hours to find Haru. We'll be right behind you.  Momo, you have some big ears!   She'll be fine, Aang. Katara knows what she's doing.  Earthbenders. It is my pleasure to welcome you aboard my modest shipyard. I am your warden. I prefer to think of you not as prisoners, but as honored guests. And I hope you come to think of me as your humble and caring host. You will succeed here, if you simply abide-  What kind of guest dishonors his host by interrupting him?! Take him below! One week in solitary will improve his manners. Simply treat me with the courtesy that I give you- And we'll get along  You will notice, earthbenders, that this rig is made entirely of metal. You are miles away from any rock or earth. So, if you have any illusions about employing that brutish savagery that passes for bending among you people ... forget them. It is impossible. Good day.  Katara?  Haru!  What are you doing here?  It's my fault you were captured. I came to rescue you.  So, you got yourself arrested? It was the only way to find you. You've got guts, Katara. I'll give you that. Come on. There's someone I want you to meet. Katara. This is my father, Tyro. Dad. This is Katara.  It's an honor to meet you.  Have some dinner, Katara. It's not as bad as it looks. It's still pretty bad though.  Tyro. The prisoners are complaining there aren't enough blankets to go around. I'll talk to the guards. In the meantime, make sure the elderly are taken care of. The rest of us will simply have to hope for warmer weather. If you don't mind me asking, what's your escape plan? Excuse me? You know, the plan to get everyone off the rig? What is it? Mutiny, sabotage? The plan? The plan is to survive. Wait out this war. Hope that one day some of us can get back home and forget this ever happened.  How can you say that? You sound like you've already given up! Katara, I admire your courage. And I envy your youth. But people's lives are at stake here. The warden is a ruthless man, and he won't stand for any rebellion. I'm sorry, but we're powerless.  We'll see about that. Earthbenders! You don't know me, but I know of you. Every child in my Water Tribe village was rocked to sleep with stories of the brave Earth Kingdom, and the courageous earthbenders who guard its borders. Some of you may think that the Fire Nation has made you powerless. Yes, they have taken away your ability to bend. But they can't take away your courage. And it is your courage they should truly fear! Because it runs deeper than any mine you've been forced to dig, any ocean that keeps you far from home! It is the strength of your hearts that make you who you are. Hearts that will remain unbroken when all rock and stone has eroded away. The time to fight back is now! I can tell you the Avatar has returned! So remember your courage earthbenders, let us fight for our freedom! Your twelve hours are up; where's Haru? We've gotta get outta here! I can't.  We don't have much time. There are guards everywhere. Get on!  Katara, what's wrong? I'm not leaving. I'm not giving up on these people. What do you mean you're not leaving? We can't abandon these people! There has to be a way to help them. Maybe she's right. What do you say, Sokka? I say you're both crazy! Last chance! We need to leave, now!  No!  I hate when you get like this. Come on, we better hide.  Go hide.  Look! Tell me exactly what you saw. Well, sir, it looked like a flying bison.  What? It was a giant flying buffalo, sir. With an empty saddle. Which was it? A buffalo or a bison? Uh, I'm not sure what the difference is, but that's not really the point, is it, sir?  I'll decide what the point is, fool!  You! Wake up the captain. Search the entire rig!  Uh, sir.  What?  That was ... the captain you just threw overboard, so ...  Then wake up someone I thrown overboard and search the rig! There's something going on here and I don't like it. We don't have much time. What are we gonna do? I wish I knew how to make a hurricane! The warden would run away and we'd steal his keys! Wouldn't he just take his keys with him? I'm just tossing ideas around. I tried talking the earthbenders into fighting back but, it didn't work! If there was just a way to help them help themselves. For that they'd need some kind of earth, or some rock. Something they can bend.  But this entire place is made of metal! No, it's not. Look at the smoke! I bet they're burning coal. In other words,  It's almost dawn. We're running out of time! You sure this is gonna work? It should. These vents reminded me of our little trick back at the village. We're gonna do the same thing, but on a much bigger scale. There's a huge deposit of coal at the base of the silo. And the whole system is ventilated. Aang closed off all the vents except one. When he does his airbending the coal only has one place to go, right back here. There's the intruder! Stay back! I'm warning you!   Katara, stop! You can't win this fight! Listen to him well, child. You're one mistake away from dying where you stand.  Here's your chance, earthbenders! Take it! Your fate is in your own hands!  Foolish girl. You thought a few inspirational words and some coal would change these people? Look at these blank, hopeless faces. Their spirits were broken a long time ago. Oh, but you still believe in them. How sweet. They're a waste of your energy little girl. You   Show no mercy!   For the Earth Kingdom, attack! Get to the ships! We'll hold them off! Do not let them escape!  Guys! Throw me some coal!  No, please! I can't swim! Don't worry. I hear cowards float.  I want to thank you for saving me. For saving us.  All it took was a little coal. It wasn't the coal, Katara. It was you.  Thank you for helping me find my courage, Katara of the Water Tribe. My family and everyone here owes you much. So, I guess you're going home now. Yes. To take back my village. To take back all of our villages! The Fire Nation will regret the day they set foot on our land!   Come with us. I can't. Your mission is to take back your home. Ours is to get Aang to the North Pole.  That's him, isn't it? The Avatar. Katara, thank you for bringing my father back to me. I never thought I'd see him again. I only wish there was some way ... I know. My mother's necklace! It's gone! Where's Momo?  Hang on, Momo! All right, you too.  This is gonna take forever.   That works. These are Fire Nation traps, you can tell from the metalwork. We better pack up camp, and get moving. Uh uh. No flying this time.  What? Why wouldn't we fly?  Think about it: Somehow Prince Zuko and the Fire Nation keep finding us. It's because they spot Appa, he's just too noticeable. What? Appa's not too noticeable!  He's a gigantic fluffy monster with an arrow on his head! It's kinda hard to miss him!   Sokka's just jealous 'cause he doesn't have an arrow.  I know you all wanna fly, but my instincts tell me we should play it safe this time and walk.  Who made you the boss?  I'm not the boss, I'm the leader.  You're the leader? But your voice still cracks!  I'm the oldest, and I'm a warrior, so I'm the leader!  If anyone's the leader, it's Aang. I mean he is the Avatar.  Are you kidding, he's just a goofy kid!  He's right. Why do boys always think someone has to be the leader? I bet you wouldn't be so bossy if you kissed a girl.  I've kissed a girl, you just haven't met her.  Who? Gran-Gran? I've met Gran-Gran.  No! Besides Gran-Gran. Look, my instincts tell me we have a better chance of slipping through on foot, and a leader has to trust his instincts.  Okay, we'll try it your way, oh wise leader.  Who knows? Walking might be fun. Walking stinks! How do people go anywhere without a flying bison?  Well I don't know, Aang. Why don't you ask Sokka's instincts? They seem to know everything.  Ha, ha, very funny.  I'm tired of carrying this pack. You know who you should ask to carry it for a while? Sokka's instincts.  That's a great idea. Hey, Sokka's instincts, would you mind- Okay, okay, I get it. Look guys, I'm tired too. But the important thing is that we're safe from the Fire ... Nation. Run! We're cut off! Sokka, your shirt!  If you let us pass, we promise not to hurt you.  What are you doing?  Bluffing? You promise not to hurt us?  Nice work, Sokka! How'd you do that? Uh, instinct?  Look! Down you go.  They're in the trees! Hey, he was mine! Gotta be quicker next time.  Man! Hey. Hi.  You just took out a whole army almost single-handed.  Army? There were only like, twenty guys. My name is Jet, and these are my Freedom Fighters, Sneers, Longshot, Smellerbee, The Duke, and Pipsqueak.  Ha, ha, Pipsqueak, that's a funny name.   You think my name is funny?  It's hilarious!  Umm, thanks for saving us Jet. We're lucky you were there. I should be thanking you. We were waiting to ambush those soldiers all morning, we just needed the right distraction, and then you guys stumbled in.  We were relying on instincts. You'll get yourself killed doing that. Hey Jet, these barrels are filled of blasting jelly. That's a great score. And these boxes are filled with jelly candy! Also good, let's not get those mixed up. We'll take this stuff back to the hideout. You guys have a hideout? You wanna see it?  Yes, we wanna see it! We're here. Where? There's nothing here. Hold this.   Why? What's this do?  Aang?  I'll get up on my own.  Grab hold of me, Katara.  Nice place you got! It's beautiful up here! It's beautiful ... and more importantly the Fire Nation can't find us.  They would love to find you. Wouldn't they, Jet? It's not gonna happen, Smellerbee.  Why does the Fire Nation want to find you? I guess you could say I've been causing them a little trouble. See, they took over a nearby Earth Kingdom town a few years back. We've been ambushin' their troops, cutting off their supply lines, and doing anything we can to mess with 'em.  One day, we'll drive the Fire Nation out of here for good and free that town. That's so brave.   Yeah, nothing's braver than a guy in a tree house. Don't pay any attention to my brother. No problem. He probably had a rough day. So, you all live here?  That's right. Longshot over there? His town got burned down by the Fire Nation. And we found The Duke trying to steal our food. I don't think he ever really had a home. What about you?  The Fire Nation killed my parents. I was only eight years old. That day changed me forever. Sokka and I lost our mother to the Fire Nation. I'm so sorry, Katara. Today, we struck another blow against the Fire Nation swine. I got a special joy from the look on one soldier's face, when The Duke dropped down on his helmet and rode him like a wild hog monkey. Now, the Fire Nation thinks they don't have to worry about a couple of kids hiding in the trees. Maybe they're right. Or maybe ... they're dead wrong.  Hey Jet, nice speech. Thanks. By the way, I was really impressed with you and Aang. That was some great bending I saw out there today. Well, he's great. He's the Avatar. I could use some more training. Avatar huh? Very nice. Thanks Jet. So I might know a way that you and Aang can help in our struggle. Unfortunately, we have to leave tonight.  Sokka, you're kidding me! I needed you on an important mission tomorrow.  What mission? What are you doing? Shh ... It amplifies vibrations.  Good trick.  Nothing yet. Wait! Yes, someone's approaching.  How many? I think there's just one.  Good work, Sokka. Ready your weapon.   Wait, false alarm ... He's just an old man. What are you doing in our woods, you leech? Please sir, I'm just a traveler. Do you like destroying towns? Do you like destroying families? Do you? Oh ... Please let me go ... have mercy ... Does the Fire Nation let people go? Does the Fire Nation have mercy? Jet, he's just an old man! He's Fire Nation! Search him!  But he's not hurting anyone! Have you forgotten that the Fire Nation killed your mother? Remember why you fight! We've got his stuff, Jet.  This doesn't feel right. It's what has to be done, now let's get outta here. Come on, Sokka! Sokka! Look what the Duke gave me! Ow! Quit it! Hey, Sokka. Is Jet back? Yeah he's back. But we're leaving. What? But I made him this hat.  Your boyfriend Jet's a thug. What? No, he's not. He's messed up Katara. He's not messed up, he's just got a different way of life, a really fun way of life. He beat and robbed a harmless old man! I wanna hear Jet's side of the story.  Sokka, you told them what happened, but you didn't mention that the guy was Fire Nation? No, he conveniently left that part out. Fine! But even if he was Fire Nation, he was a harmless civilian! He was an assassin, Sokka. See? There's a compartment for poison in the knife. . He was sent to eliminate me; you helped save my life, Sokka. I knew there was an explanation. I didn't see any knife! That's because he was concealing it. See, Sokka? I'm sure you just didn't notice the knife. There was no knife! I'm going back to the hut and packing my things.  Tell me you guys aren't leaving yet. I really need your help. What can we do? The Fire Nation is planning on burning down our forest. If you both use waterbending to fill the reservoir, we could fight the fires. But if you leave now, they'll destroy the whole valley. We can't leave now with the Fire Nation about to burn down a forest! I'm sorry Katara. Jet's very smooth, but we can't trust him. You know what I think? You're jealous that he's a better warrior and a better leader! Katara, I'm not jealous of Jet. It's just that my instinct— Well my instincts tell me we need to stay here a little longer and help Jet. Come on Aang. Sorry, Sokka. Let's go. Now listen, you are not to blow the dam until I give the signal. If the reservoir isn't full, the Fire Nation troops could survive.  But what about the people in the town, won't they get wiped out too?  Look Duke, that's the price of ridding this area of the Fire Nation. Now don't blow the dam until I give the signal—got it?   Where do you think you're going, ponytail? Sokka, I'm glad you decided to join us.  I heard your plan to destroy the Earth Kingdom town. Our plan is to rid the valley of the Fire Nation. There are people living there, Jet; mothers and fathers and children. We can't win without making some sacrifices.  You lied to Aang and Katara about the forest fire! Because they don't understand the demands of war. Not like you and I do. I do understand. I understand that there's nothing you won't do to get what you want. I was hoping you'd have an open mind, but I can see you've made your choice. I can't let you warn Katara and Aang. Take him for a walk, a long walk. You can't do this! Cheer up, Sokka. We're gonna win a great victory against the Fire Nation today. Jet, I'm sorry about how Sokka's been acting. No worries, he already apologized. Really? Sokka apologized? Yeah, I was surprised too. I got the sense that maybe you talked to him or something. Yeah, I did. I guess something you said got through to him. Anyhow, he went out on a scouting mission with Pipsqueak and Smellerbee. I'm glad he cooled off. He's so stubborn sometimes. All right, we're here. Underground water's trying to escape through these vents. I need you guys to help it along. I've never used bending on water I can't see. I don't know ...  Katara. You can do this.  What about me? I know the Avatar can do this. Yes! Good job! This river empties into the reservoir--a few more geysers and it'll be full. Look, there's another steam vent.  Okay. You two keep it up, I'll go check on things at the reservoir.  When we're done we'll meet you over there. Actually ... probably better if you meet me back at the hideout when you're done.   I bet that's enough, and I'm not just saying that to be lazy.  Let's catch up with Jet at the reservoir. I thought we agreed to meet Jet back at the hideout. Well, we finished early. I'm sure he'll be happy to see us. Come on, move along! How can you stand by and do nothing while Jet wipes out a whole town? Hey listen Sokka, Jet's a great leader. We follow what he says, and things always turn out okay.  If that's how Jet leads, then he's got a lot to learn.  Hey!  While you two are up there, you might want to practice your knot work.  Hey Smellerbee, you gonna eat your lychee nuts? Ooh.  What are they doing? Hey, those are the red barrels he got from the Fire Nation. Why would they need blasting jelly?  Because Jet's gonna blow up the dam. What? No, that would destroy the town. Jet wouldn't do that.  I've gotta stop him.   Jet wouldn't do that. Yes I would. Jet, why? Katara, you would too if you just stopped to think. Think about what the Fire Nation did to your mother, we can't let them do that to anyone else, ever again. This isn't the answer! I want you to understand me Katara. I thought your brother would understand, but— Where's Sokka?  Katara. I need to get to the dam. You're not going anywhere without your glider. I'm not gonna fight you, Jet.  You'll have to if you want your glider back. Why, Jet? I can't believe I trusted you. You lied to me, you're sick and I trusted you! What are you doing? You're too late.  No!  Sokka's still out there, he's our only chance. Come on, Sokka. I'm sorry I ever doubted you, please.  No ... Sokka didn't make it in time. All those people ... Jet, you monster! This was a victory, Katara. Remember that. The Fire Nation is gone and this valley will be safe. It will be safe, without you.  Sokka! I warned the villagers of your plan, just in time. What?!  At first they didn't believe me. The Fire Nation soldiers assumed I was a spy. But one man vouched for me, the old man you attacked. He urged them to trust me, and we got everyone out in time.   Misses Pretty!  Sokka, you fool! We could've freed this valley! Who would be free? Everyone would be dead. You traitor! No, Jet. You became the traitor when you stopped protecting innocent people. Katara. Please, help me. Goodbye Jet.  Yip yip.  We thought you were going to the dam. How come you went to the town instead? Let me guess, your instincts told you.  Hey, sometimes they're right. Um ... Sokka? You know we're going the wrong way, right?  And sometimes they're wrong.   We found a printer to make our posters!  Hey, I thought designing the lost Appa poster was my job. I've been working all day on my Appa!  Sokka, the arrow is on Appa's head.  This is his head.   Why are feet coming out of it?  Those are his horns. I haven't seen him in a while, okay?  It looks just like him to me! Thank you, I worked really- Why do you feel the need to do that? Let's just stick with the professional version.  Come on, let's get busy!  So, you're the genius behind this incredible brew. The whole city is buzzing about you! I hope Pao pays you well. Good tea is its own reward. But it doesn't have to be the only reward. How would you like to have your own tea shop?  My own tea shop? This is a dream come true!  What's going on here? Are you trying to poach my tea-maker? Sorry Pao, but that's business for you, am I right? Mushi, if you stay, I'll make you assistant manager. Wait, senior assistant manager! I'll provide you with a new apartment in the Upper Ring. The tea shop is yours to do whatever you want, complete creative freedom. I even get to name the shop? Of course! Uh, senior executive assistant manager? Did you hear, nephew? This man wants to give us our own tea shop in the Upper Ring of the city! That's right, young man, your life is about to change for the better!  I'll try to contain my joy.  I just finished dropping all the leaflets. Has anyone come in with news about Appa? It's only been a day. Just be patient.   Wow, you're right! Patience really pays off! Joo Dee? Hello, Aang, and Katara, and Sokka, and Toph.  What happened to you? Did the Dai Li throw you in jail? What? Jail? Of course not. The Dai Li are the protectors of our cultural heritage. But you disappeared at the Earth King's party. Oh, I simply took a short vacation to Lake Laogai, out in the country. It was quite relaxing.  But then they replaced you with some other woman who also said her name was Joo Dee.  I'm Joo Dee. Why are you here? Dropping fliers and putting up posters isn't permitted within the city. Not without proper clearance. We can't wait around to get permission for everything. You are absolutely forbidden by the rules of the city to continue putting up posters.  We don't care about the rules and we're not asking permission! We're finding Appa on our own and you should just stay out of our way!  That might come back to bite us in the blubber.  I don't care! From now on, we do whatever it takes to find Appa! Yeah, let's break some rules!  I'm very disappointed in your work with the Avatar and his friends, Joo Dee. I had hoped that you would be able to control this situation. I am so sorry, but they don't trust me anymore. I don't think I can keep working like this!  Joo Dee, the Earth King has invited you to Lake Laogai.  I am honored to accept his invitation.  Good. Now go await further orders. If the Avatar keeps searching for his bison, it could upset the delicate balance we've worked so hard to achieve in this city. It could even cost us control of the Earth King. Should we take care of him? No. It's much too dangerous for us to confront him directly. Let's see if we can still handle this quietly. So, I was thinking about names for my new tea shop. How about the Jasmine Dragon? It's dramatic, poetic, has a nice ring to it.  The Avatar is here in Ba Sing Se and he's lost his bison.  We have a chance for a new life here. If you start stirring up trouble, we could lose all the good things that are happening for us.  Good things that are happening for you! Have you ever thought that I want more from life than a nice apartment and a job serving tea? There is nothing wrong with a life of peace and prosperity. I suggest you think about what it is that you want from your life and why. I want my destiny. What that means is up to you. The Tea Weevil! No, that's stupid. We'll split up to cover more area. Toph, I guess you should just come with me.  Why? Because you think I can't put up posters on my own?! It's upside-down, isn't it? I'll just go with Sokka. Katara?  I think I can help you. Katara, I've changed!  Tell it to some other girl, Jet!   I don't want to fight you, I'm here to help! Katara, what is it? Jet's back. We can't trust anything Jet says. But we don't even know why he's here! I don't care why he's here, whatever the reason is, it can't be good! I'm here to help you find Appa!   Katara, we have to give him a chance. I swear, I've changed! I was a troubled person and I let my anger get out of control, but I don't even have the gang now! I've put all that behind me! You're lying!  He's not lying. How can you tell? I can feel his breathing and heartbeat. When people lie, there's a physical reaction. He's telling the truth. Katara, we don't have any leads. If Jet says he can take us to Appa, we have to check it out. All right. But we're not letting you out of our sight. This is the place I heard about. There's nothing here.  If this is a trap– I told you, I work nearby! Two guys were talking about some giant furry creature they had, I figured it must be Appa! He was here!   We missed him.  They took that big thing yesterday. Shipped him out to some island. About time, I've been cleaning up fur, and various, uhhh ... leavings all day.  What island? Where's Appa? Foreman said some rich royal type on Whaletail Island bought him up. Guess for a zoo or such. Though, could be the meat that'd be good. We've got to get to Whaletail Island! Where's Whaletail Island?   Far, very far. Here it is. It's near the South Pole, almost all the way back home. Aang, it will take us weeks just to get to the tip of the Earth Kingdom. And then we'll need to find a boat to get to the island. I don't care. We have a chance to find Appa! We have to try! Must be nice to visit an island. I haven't had a vacation for years. Don't you have some more hair to clean up? Shuffle on, I get you. No more need for Old Sweepy ... You're right Aang, right now our first concern has to be finding Appa. We can come back when we have him. All right, let's get moving. I'll come with you. We don't need your help! Why won't you trust me?  Gee, I wonder.  Was this guy your boyfriend or something? What ... no!   I can tell you're lying ...  We can take the train out to the wall but then we'll have to walk. Don't worry, on the way back we'll be flying! We're finally leaving Ba Sing Se. Worst ... city ... ever!  Jet!  I thought you said you didn't have your "gang" anymore!  I don't!  We were so worried. How did you get away from the Dai Li?   The Dai Li?! I don't know what she's talking about! He got arrested by the Dai Li a couple of weeks ago. We saw them drag him away! Why would I be arrested? I've been living peacefully in the city!  This doesn't make any sense. They're both telling the truth. That's impossible. No it's not! Toph can't tell who's lying because they both think they're telling the truth. Jet's been brainwashed! That's crazy! It can't be! Stay away from me! Out of my way, skinny! Huh? If you don't want to end up like him, you'll do what I say. The Dai Li must have sent Jet to mislead us, and that janitor was part of their plot, too! I bet they have Appa here in the city. Maybe he's in the same place they took Jet! Where did they take you? Nowhere! I- I don't know what you're talking about! We need to find a way to jog his real memories.  Maybe Katara should kiss him. That should bring something back! Maybe you should kiss him, Sokka! Hey, just an idea!  A bad one. Ooh, wait! I've got it! I don't think it's working.  Try to think of something from your past that triggers your emotions. The Fire Nation! Remember what they did to your family! Close your eyes. Picture it.  No! It's too painful! Maybe this will help.  They took me to a headquarters under the water. Like a lake! Wait! Remember what Joo Dee said? She said she went on vacation to Lake Laogai!  That's it! Lake Laogai. So where's this secret headquarters? Under the water, I think. There's a tunnel right there by the shore. It's all starting to come back to me! I'm Joo Dee. Welcome to Ba Sing Se.  .] I'm Joo Dee. Welcome to Ba Sing Se. We're so lucky to have our walls to create order. [ We're so lucky to have our walls to create order. I think there might be a cell big enough to hold Appa up ahead. I think it's through here!  Expecting someone else? Now that's something different. You have made yourselves enemies of the state. Take them into custody.  Long Feng is escaping! All right, Avatar, you've caused me enough problems. This is your last chance ... if you want your bison back. You do have Appa! Tell me where he is! Agree to exit the city now, and I'll waive all charges against you and allow you to leave with your lost pet.  You're in no position to bargain. Am I not?  You're definitely not! Jet, the Earth King has invited you to Lake Laogai.  I am honored to accept his invitation. You're mine now. Uncle? So, the Blue Spirit. I wonder who could be behind that mask ...  What are you doing here? I was just about to ask you the same thing. What do you plan to do now that you've found the Avatar's bison? Keep him locked in our new apartment? Should I go put on a pot of tea for him? First I have to get it out of here.  And then what!? You never think these things through! This is exactly what happened when you captured the Avatar at the North Pole! You had him, and then you had nowhere to go! I would have figured something out! No! If his friends hadn't found you, you would have frozen to death! I know my own destiny, Uncle! Is it your own destiny, or is it a destiny someone else has tried to force on you? Stop it, Uncle! I have to do this! I'm begging you, Prince Zuko! It's time for you to look inward and begin asking yourself the big questions. Who are you, and what do you want? Jet, it's me, Aang! You don't have to do this! I'm afraid he no longer has a choice. Jet, I'm your friend! Look inside your heart! Do your duty, Jet! He can't make you do this! You're a Freedom Fighter! Do it! Do it now!  Foolish boy. You've chosen your own demise.   I'm sorry ... Aang.  Don't be. This isn't good. You guys go and find Appa. We'll take care of Jet. We're not going to leave you. There's no time. Just go. We'll take care of him. He's our leader. Don't worry, Katara. I'll be fine.   He's lying ... Appa's gone! Long Feng beat us here. If we keep moving, maybe we can catch up with them! You think we can outrun them? I don't think it's gonna matter! What is it, Momo? Appa! I can handle you by myself. Yeah! Appa!  I missed you, buddy. You did the right thing, nephew. Leave it behind.  This is it! The official rendezvous point for the invasion force. How did you pick this place? Before we split up, my dad and I found this island on the map. It's uninhabited, and the harbors surrounded by the cliffs seemed like the perfect secluded place. Nice choice, Sokka. And we're here four days ahead of schedule.  Wait! Four days? The invasion's in four days?  Whatever. That's like four days from now. Let's just calm down and- Sokka's got the right idea, Aang. We're here. We're ready. The best thing we can do now is get plenty of rest.   I guess.  Your days of tyranny are over, Fire Lord! I'm bringing you down. Really? How do you plan on doing that when you're not even wearing pants? Oh no! It was just a dream, Momo. I still have my pants. Well, I better keep training. Fresh fruit, Prince Zuko? May I wash your feet, sir? Head massage? Hot towel? Prince Zuko, is something wrong? You didn't take the palanquin. I'm just going to Mai's house. It's not far. It's not a prince's place to walk anywhere, sir. Hey. How long have you been up? A couple hours. I got a lot more skills to refine if I'm gonna fight Ozai.  You know, there is such a thing as over-training. You don't get it, do you? My form is bad, I'm sloppy, and I still don't know any firebending. Not even the basics. That's okay, Aang. The eclipse will block off firebending anyway. You don't need to know it. Plus, it's a stupid element. Okay, well I still have to work on everything else. I better spend the whole day training.  Good night, Katara. Good night, Sokka. Good night, Toph. Good night, Appa. Good night, Momo. Good night, Appa and Mo-      Your days of tyranny are over, Fire Lord. I'm bringing you down! And this time, I brought pants. So it seems, but are you prepared for your ... mathematics test? Math test? Oh no! I forgot all about the math test! I've gotta be ready. Aang, it's the middle of the night. You need to go back to sleep. But I forgot my pants and my math test. Aang, sleep. Please. For me. Tell me, if you could have anything you want right now, what would it be? Hm ... A big fancy fruit tart, with rose petals on top. You know, being a prince and all, I might just be able to make that happen.  That would be impressive.  Do you think you could find a fresh fruit tart for the lady, with rose petals on top? Excellent choice, sir. I guess there's some nice perks that come with being royalty. Though there's annoying stuff, too. Like that all-day war meeting coming up.  War meeting? What are you talking about? Azula mentioned something. I-I assumed you were going, too. I guess I wasn't invited. Wake up, Aang. Wake up, sleepy head! Rise and shine! You overslept. You missed the invasion. Sokka, get up! I needa know what day it is! What? Who's talking? Relax! It's still two days before the invasion! Sokka, you've gotta get up drill your rock-climbing exercises. What? In one of my dreams, you were running from Fire Nation soldiers, trying to climb this cliff, but you were too slow and they got you! But that was just a dream. I'm a great climber!  Then climb that cliff! Climb it fast! Stupid Avatar! Stupid cliff! Stupid dream! I can climb fast!  Don't drink that! Why? Is it poisoned? In my dream, we were right in the middle of the invasion, and you had to stop to use the bathroom! We died because of your tiny bladder. And you need to start wearing your hair up. In my dream, your hair got caught in a train, and-.  Aang! I know you're just trying to help, but you really need to get a grip. You're unraveling.  You're right. I'm losing my mind. It's like every time I think about how stressed I am, I just end up more stressed. I'm like a big growing snowball of nerves.  Of course you are. That's 'cause you gotta fight the Fire Lord, the baddest man on the planet. And you better win or we're all done for.  Sokka! You're not helping!  What? It's true. That's the deal. He knows it. You know what, I've got just the thing! Get ready to be de-stressified! These yoga stretches can really work wonders if you do them in extreme heat. Reach up. Reach for the sun. Feel your chi paths clearing. Now close your eyes. How are you feeling?  I feel ... really warm. Good, good. Go on. Like there's this warm feeling all around me. This heat. Like I'm in the Fire Lord's palace and he's shooting a bunch of fireballs at me! And the whole world is being engulfed in flames! Maybe your stress is the kind you need to talk out.  Why don't you get right down to business and tell me what's been bothering you. You know what's bothering me. I have to fight the Fire Lord in a few days.  Tell me more about this "Fire Lord". Why are you so afraid of him? You said it yourself! He's the baddest man on the planet! I'm supposed to defeat him and save the world!  Life does feel that way sometimes, doesn't it? Like we're all trying to save the world from evil. Okay! But what can I do to feel better?  Want to try screaming into this pillow? Hello, Zuzu. If you've come for a royal hair-combing, I'm afraid you'll have to wait. So I guess there's a big war meeting coming up, huh? And apparently I'm not welcome there. What do you mean? Of course you're welcome there! Oh, yeah?! I guess that's why no one bothered to tell me about it! Oh, Zuko. Don't be so dramatic. I'm certain Dad wants you there. You probably just weren't invited because it's so obvious you're supposed to be there. Well, were you invited? Of course! I'm the princess. And I'm the prince! Exactly, so stop acting like a paranoid child! Just go to the meeting. Forget it! I'm not going! All right! What you need is a good old-fashioned back pounding to relieve your stress.  Pound away.  Ow! Toph ... I ... think ... this ... is ... bruising ... me! Sorry. I forgot you had baby skin. Well, there's one other thing we can try. Acupuncture! Zuko, it's just a dumb meeting. Who cares? I don't. Well, good. You shouldn't. I mean, why would you even want to go? Just think about how things went the last meeting you went to.  I know. You know what will make you feel better? Ordering some servants around. I might be hungry for a whole tray of fruit tarts. And maybe a little palanquin ride around town. Double time. Thanks for everything, guys. So, do you feel less stressed? Ready for a good night's sleep?  Uh, I kinda think I sorta might slightly feel a little better. Maybe. Then our work here is done. What happened, Aang?  It's the nightmares. They just get worse and worse. Looks like it's time for another ... therapy session.  No. That won't help. Nothing helps. There's only one thing I can do! I'm going to stay awake straight through to the invasion! Invasion. All aboard for the invasion.  You don't look so good. You sure you can't just lie down for a little nap? I told you, I can't go back to sleep. Aang, staying up all night can't be good for you.  Actually, staying up all night has given me some time to think. And I've realized some big things, Katara. What big things? I see everything so clearly now. What really matters. Why I'm really doing this. I'm doing it to save the world. But more than that. I'm doing it for the people I love. I'm doing it for you, Katara. Aang, what are you saying? I'm saying, I love you!   What are we doing? What our hearts have been telling us to do for a long, long time. Baby, you're my forever girl.  Aang! I was just saying you should take a nap.  Oh, I guess I kinda drifted off into a daydream. What was your dream about?  Uh, living underwater?  Sounds neat! Prince Zuko, everyone's waiting for you. What? The high admirals, the high generals, the war ministers, and the princess have all arrived. You're the only person missing. So, my dad wants me at the meeting? The Fire Lord said he would not start until you arrived, sir. Put 'em up, Fire Lord! Hey! I'm tryin' build Appa some armor here so he doesn't have to go into the invasion naked. He's your bison.  Ozai's defense is impeccable. I'll have to try a different approach. You think you're untouchable, don't you, Mr. Fire Lord?  Boy, you are really starting to lose it, kid. Momo, did you hear something?   No, but I said something. You, my friend, are just a few plums short of a fruit pie.  That's more like it. I'm so tired that for a second there, I imagined you were talking to me. Oh, Momo, let me explain.  Aang? We're all starting to get a little worried about you. You've been awake too long. And you're acting downright weird. You've got to take care of yourself. You can't go on like this.  Look, I appreciate what you guys are saying, but the stress and the nightmares. They were just too much. Staying awake is the best way for me to deal with it.  Yeah! Leave the kid alone!  Hey, who asked you?  You guys, come on. No! I am sick of this guy always mouthing me and telling me what to do! Oh, you don't like it? Well, let's go right now! Sokka, what do we do?  About what?  About that!  Appa! Appa! Appa! Momo! Momo! Momo! Come on, guys. We're all on the same side.  Chakras, chakras, everybody loves chakras. Chakras, chakras, chakras sandwich tastes good. Yum!  Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! Yay! I just need to jump in a cold waterfall! So, how did it go?  When I got to the meeting, everyone welcomed me. My father had saved me a seat. He wanted me next to him. I was literally at his right hand. Zuko, that's wonderful! You must be happy. During the meeting, I was the perfect prince. The son my father wanted. But I wasn't me. Oh, look. Another hallucination. An imaginary bed made out of clouds. Hey! It's real! We spent hours working on it. We made it for you. A good night's sleep will probably take the crazy away. We hope. Look! You guys keep telling me that I need to sleep, but I can't! The invasion's tomorrow!  Aang ... No, Katara! There's still so much I haven't learned. I don't need sleep. What I need is practice. Quick, hit me!  I'm not going to hit you. You want me to do it?   Listen to me. You've been training for this since the day we met. I've seen your progress. You're smart, brave, and strong enough. You really think so?  We all do. You can do this. You're ready. You're the man, Twinkle Toes! Thanks, guys. You know what? I think I am ready. Your days of tyranny are over, Fire Lord! Really? You're gonna take me out? You're not even wearing pants!  No, Fire Lord Ozai. not wearing any pants. No! My royal parts are showing.  I can't believe it. I know the War has spread far, but Omashu always seemed ... untouchable. Up until now it was. Now Ba Sing Se is the only great Earth Kingdom stronghold left.  This is horrible, but we have to move on. No, I'm going in to find Bumi. Aang, stop. We don't even know if Bumi's still ...  What? If he's still what?  A-around. I know you had your heart set on Bumi, but there are other people who can teach you earthbending. This isn't about finding a teacher. This is about finding my friend. A secret passage? Why didn't we just use this last time? Ugh! That answer your question? Eww! That wasn't as bad as I thought.  Ahh! They won't let go! Help!  Shh! Stop making so much noise. It's just a purple pentapus. Hey! What are you kids doing out past curfew? Sorry. We were just on our way home.  Wait, what's the matter with him? Uh, he has pentapox, sir. Umm, it's highly contagious.  Oh, it's so awful. I'm dying. And deadly. Hey, I think I heard of pentapox! Didn't your cousin Chang die of it? We'd better go wash our hands, and burn our clothes. Thank you, sewer friends. When tracking your brother and uncle, traveling with the royal procession may no longer be an option. May no longer be wise. If you hope to keep the element of surprise. You're right. The Royal Procession is dead weight. If I want to catch my prey, I must be agile, nimble. I need a small, elite team. It's time to visit some old friends. Let's find Bumi and get out of here. Where would they be keeping him? Somewhere he can't earthbend. Somewhere made of metal. There really is no fathoming the depths of my hatred for this place. Mai, your father was appointed governor. We're like royalty here. Be happy and enjoy it. The targets are approaching. Take them out.  I thought my life was boring in the Fire Nation, but this place is unbearably bleak. Nothing ever happens.  The resistance! Ty Lee, could that possibly be you? Azula! It is so good to see you! Please, don't let me interrupt your ... whatever it is you were doing.  Tell me, what is the daughter of a nobleman doing here? Certainly our parents didn't send us to the Royal Fire Academy for Girls to end up in ... places like this. I have a proposition for you. I'm hunting a traitor. You remember my old fuddy-duddy uncle, don't you?  Oh yeah. He was so funny. I would be honored if you would join me on my mission. Oh ... I ... uh ... would love to. But the truth is, I'm really happy here. I mean, my aura has never been pinker!  I'll take your word for it. Well, I wouldn't want you to give up the life you love just to please me.  Thank you, Azula.   Of course, before I leave, I'm going to catch your show.  Uh ... yeah ... sure ... uh ... of course ... So, is King Bumi with you guys? Is he leading the resistance? Of course not! The day of the invasion, we readied ourselves for battle. We were prepared to defend our city ... to fight for our lives and for our freedom. But before we even had a chance, King Bumi surrendered. The day of the invasion, I asked King Bumi what he wanted to do. He looked me in the eye and said ... I'm going to do ... nothing!  It doesn't matter now. Fighting the Fire Nation is the only path to freedom. And freedom is worth dying for. Actually there's another path to freedom. You could leave Omashu. You're directing all your energy to fight the Fire Nation. But you're outnumbered. You can't win. Now's the time to retreat, so you can live to fight another day. You don't understand. They've taken our home, and we have to fight them at any cost!   I don't know, Yung, living to fight another day is startin' to sound pretty good to me.  Yeah, I'm with the kid! Fine. But there's thousands of citizens that need to leave. How're we going to get them all out? Suckers! You're all about to come down with a nasty case of pentapox. The marks make ya look sick, but you gotta act sick too. Ya gotta sell it!  Now that's what I'm talkin' about. Years of practice. Okay everyone! Into sick formation. Aang, what are you doing? Aren't you coming with us?  No. I'm not leaving until I find Bumi. Sorry Momo, I'll feed you later. Plague! Plague! What is going on down there? I saw some kids yesterday who were sick with pentapox. It must have spread! Pentapox! Hmm, I'm pretty sure I've heard of that. Oh, this is terrible. What should we do? Drive them out of the city ... but don't touch them! We have to rid the city of this disease! Fire flakes, Dad?  How awful! Flopsie! Come on, Flopsie. You gotta help me find Bumi. Yip Yip! Oh ... I guess that doesn't work with you. Let's go! We're deeply honored to have the Fire Lord's daughter at our humble circus. Uh ... tell us if there is anything we can do to make the show more enjoyable. I will. Incredible. Do you think she'll fall? Of course not. Then wouldn't it make it more interesting if you removed the net?  Uh ... the thing is ... the performers ... You're right, you're right. That's been done. I know. Set the net on fire.  Of course, Princess.  Brilliant, just brilliant! Ooh, what kind of dangerous animals do you have? Well, our circus boasts the most exotic assortment- Release them all!  We looked everywhere. No Bumi. We've got a problem. We just did a head count.  Oh no. Did someone get left behind? No, we have an extra. So, the resistance has kidnapped my son. Everything so clever, so tricky. Just like their King Bumi. What do you want to do, sir? What an exquisite performance. I can't wait to see how you'll top yourself tomorrow.  I'm sorry Azula, but unfortunately there won't be a show tomorrow. Really?  The universe has given me strong hints that it's time for a career change. I want to join you on your mission. No! Bad Fire Nation baby!  Oh ... all right.  Oooh, you're so cute. Mmmmm ... Sure he's cute now, but when he's older, he'll join the Fire Nation army. You won't think he's so cute then. He'll be a killer. Does that look like the face of a killer to you? A messenger hawk! It's from the Fire Nation governor. He thinks we kidnapped his son. So ... he wants to make a trade. His son for King Bumi. You realize we're probably walking right into a trap. I don't think so. I'm sure the governor wants his son back as much as we want Bumi. It's a new day. I have a good feeling about this. Please tell me you're here to kill me.  It's great to see you, Mai. I thought you ran off and joined the circus. You said it was your calling.  Well, Azula called a little louder. I have a mission and I need you both.  Count me in. Anything to get me out of this place.  I apologize. You've come to Omashu at a difficult time. At noon we're making a trade with the resistance to get Tom-Tom back. Yes, I'm so sorry to hear about your son, but really, what did you expect by just letting all the citizens leave? My father has trusted you with this city and you're making a mess of things!  Forgive me, Princess. You stay here. Mai will handle the hostage trade so you don't have a chance to mess it up. And there is no more "Omashu". I'm renaming it in honor of my father, the city of New Ozai.  Hi, everybody! You brought my brother? He's here. We're ready to trade.  I'm sorry, but a thought just occurred to me. Do you mind?  Of course not, Princess Azula. We're trading a two year old for a king. A powerful, earthbending king?  Mmm hmmm! It just doesn't seem like a fair trade, does it? You're right. The deal's off.  Whhhoa! See you all later! Bumi!  The Avatar! My lucky day.  Aang, is that you? Where did you come from? Hang on! We're gonna get you out of here. We've got to get the baby out of here!  Way ahead of ya!  Aang, stop your blowing for a minute. Now hold on just a duahhh!!! It's just like old times, isn't it, Bumi?  Aang, I need to talk to you! It's good to see you too!  How are you gonna fight without your bending?  I seem to manage! There's Aang!  We can catch him! Hang on, Bumi! Our ride's here!  You could earthbend? All along? Well, they didn't cover my face.  I don't understand. Why didn't you free yourself? Why did you surrender when Omashu was invaded? What's the matter with you, Bumi?  Listen to me, Aang. There are options in fighting, called jing. It's a choice of how you direct your energy.  I know! There's positive jing when you're attacking, and negative jing when you're retreating.  ... and neutral jing when you do nothing!  There are three jings? Well, technically there are eighty-five, but let's just focus on the third. Neutral jing is the key to earthbending. It involves listening and waiting for the right moment to strike.  That's why you surrendered, isn't it? Yes, and it's why I can't leave now.  I guess I need to find someone else to teach me earthbending. Your teacher will be someone who has mastered neutral jing. You need to find someone who waits and listens before striking.  Hey, Momo! Momo's mastered a few jings himself! Goodbye, Aang. I'll see you when the time is right. So, we're tracking down your brother and Uncle, huh?  It'll be interesting seeing Zuko again, won't it, Mai? It's not just Zuko and Iroh anymore. We have a third target now. Tom-Tom! Wow, this is amazing to watch. Kind of makes you realize how insignificant we are.  Eh, you've seen nothing once, you've seen it a thousand times. Oh man, you've not seen anything like this. The fire is gonna destroy that town! Not if we can stop it!  There's a creek over here. I'll bend the water onto the fire.   Toph, let's make a trench to stop the fire from coming any closer. What should I do?  Keep an eye on Momo. So what, I'm just a lemur sitter? There, there, feel better? Sokka, stand clear!  Right. Staying clear, got it. Good work, everybody. Look at you, you're just a fat, disgusting old man. You do nothing, you say nothing, you just eat and roll around in your own filth like a pig. You're a disgrace.  These people have no idea how close they were to getting toasted last night. Yeah, the worst thing about being in disguise is that we don't get the hero worship anymore. I miss the love.  Boo-hoo, poor heroes.  What's your problem? You haven't even touched your smoked sea slug. It's just, all you guys can do this awesome bending stuff like putting out forest fires, and flying around and making other stuff fly around. I can't fly around, okay? I can't do anything. That's not true. No one can read a map like you. I can't read at all! Yeah, and who keeps us laughing with sarcastic comments all the time? I mean, look at Katara's hair, right? What's up with that? What? What's wrong with my hair?   Nothing. I was just trying to ... Look, I appreciate the effort, but the fact is each of you is so amazing and so special and I'm ... not. I'm just the guy in the group who's regular.  I'm sorry you're feeling so down, but I hope you know, none of us see you that way. I know something that's going to make you feel better.  You do? Shopping! Maybe a little something to reinvigorate my battling. Hey, how about these?   What do you think? Pretty slick, huh? All I need to complete the outfit is a wind sword. What's a wind sword? It's where I get a sword handle and then I just swing this around and bend air out like a blade. Whoosh, whoosh, whoosh.  Yeah ... nice. I'll just stick to what I got.  Ooh!  what Sokka's talking about. You have a good eye. That's an original from Piandao, the greatest swordsmaster and sword maker in Fire Nation history. He lives in the big castle up the road from here.   That's it! That's what you needed all along, Sokka. A sword? Not the sword, a master. We've all had masters to help us get better. You should see if you can study with Piandao.  That's a great idea. I could've never gotten to where I am without Master Pakku. Everyone needs a teacher.  I learned from badgermoles. They don't talk, but they're still good teachers.  It would be nice to be a master sword fighter. All right, I'll talk to him.  Can I help you? I've come to train with the master.  You should know The Master turns almost everyone away. What did you bring him to prove your worth?  Well, uhh ...   Right ... Let's get this over with. Master, my name is Sokka, and I wish to be instructed in the way of the sword. Sokka. That's an unusual name.  Oh, uh, really, uh where I come from, the Fire Nation colonies, it's a pretty normal name... for Fire Nation colonials.  Let me guess. You've come hundreds of miles from your little village where you're the best swordsman in town. And you think you deserve to learn from the master.  Well, actually, I've been all over the world.  Yep, here we go.  And I know one thing for sure: I have a lot to learn.  You're not doing a very good job of selling yourself.  I know. Your butler told me that when I met you, I would have to prove my worth. But the truth is... I don't know if I am worthy.  Hm, I see. Well, then, let's find out together how worthy you are. I will train you.  The first thing you must learn is that your weapon is an extension of yourself. You must think of it as another part of your own body.  Like a second head.  Well, more like an extra-long, really sharp arm. The sword is a simple tool, but in the hands of a master it becomes the most versatile of weapons, and just as the imagination is limitless, so too are the possibilities of the sword. What should we do today‌? I'm tapped out. I already picked my toes, twice. Twice? The first time was for cleaning, but the second time's just for the sweet picking sensation! Sokka's been in charge of the schedule. I'm not sure what we should be doing.  Plus, it's so hot today.  How hot is it? I dunno. Real hot‌?  I-It's so hot, it's so hot ... Momo is shedding like Appa. Huh, huh‌? I guess the jokes don't run in the family. Oh, everyone's a critic. The warrior practices a variety of arts to keep his mind sharp and fluid. The first you will learn is calligraphy. Write your name.  Writing my name will make me a better swordsman‌?  When you write your name, you stamp the paper with your identity. You must learn to use your sword to stamp your identity on a battlefield. Remember, you cannot take back a stroke of the brush, or a stroke of the sword.  You are getting ink on your face.  I am? I am! So this is about putting my identity on the page, right? Landscape painting teaches a warrior to hold the lay of the land in his mind. In battle, you only have an instant to take everything in. Now, paint it. And no peeking. I'm finished!  You added a rainbow.  Is that ok‌ay?  Sokka.  Concentrate on what you're doing. Rock gardening teaches the warrior to manipulate his surroundings and use them to his advantage. Hm, manipulate them to my advantage ... oh! Hey, would you mind grabbing a cold drink for me‌? I'll take a slice of lemon in mine, please. What's going on in there‌? Crazy old man. So where are we going next‌? We're starting from here ...  No, we're over on this island.  You noodle-brains don't know what you're doing. I miss Sokka. Ooh, I got one: if you miss him so much, why don't you marry him‌? You've had a good first day of training.  I have‌? But I thought I messed up every single thing we worked on!  You messed things up in a very special way. You are ready for a real sword.  Are you giving me one of yours‌?  No.  Your sword must be an extension of yourself. So tomorrow, you will make your own sword. Choosing the correct material is the most important step in crafting a sword. You must trust your steel with your life. Choose carefully. Master, would it be possible for me to leave and bring back a special material for my sword‌?  I wouldn't have it any other way.  Sokka's coming! Hey, guys. What are you doing‌? Sokka! You're back!  We missed you so much!  Say something funny!  Funny how‌?  What's their deal‌?   I don't know. They missed you or something. I didn't care.    Thanks. That warms my heart. Anyway, I need some help. Who's this‌?  Oh, these are my friends. Just other good Fire Nation folks. Do you think we can make a sword out of a meteorite‌?  We'll make a sword unlike any other in the world. Sokka, when you first arrived, you were so unsure. You even seemed down on yourself. But I saw something in you right away. I saw a heart as strong as a lion turtle, and twice as big. And as we trained, it wasn't your skills that impressed me. No, it certainly wasn't your skills. You showed something beyond that. Creativity, versatility, intelligence ... these are the traits that define a great swordsman. And these are the traits that define you. You told me you didn't know if you were worthy, but I believe that you are more worthy than any man I have ever trained. I'm sorry, Master. You're wrong. I am not worthy. I'm not who you think I am. I'm not from the Fire Nation. I'm from the Southern Water Tribe. I lied so that I could learn swordsmanship from you. I'm sorry.   I'm sorry, too. No, this is my fight, alone. You used to be the pride of the Fire Nation. Our top general, the Dragon of the West. Now, look at you. Look what you've become. Excellent! Using your superior agility against an older opponent ... smart. Good use of terrain ... fighting from the high ground. Yes, use your surroundings. Make them fight for you! Very resourceful. Excellent work, Sokka. I think I'm a little old to be fighting the Avatar. How did you know‌? Oh, I've been around a while. You pick things up. Of course, I knew from the beginning that Sokka was Water Tribe. You might want to think of a better Fire Nation cover name. Try "Lee." There's a million "Lees". . But why would you agree to train someone from the Water Tribe‌?  The way of the sword doesn't belong to any one nation. Knowledge of the arts belongs to us all. Sokka, you must continue your training on your own. If you stay on this path, I know that one day you will become an even greater master than I am. Wait! The Master wanted you to have this, as something to remember him by. It's a Pai Sho tile. The White Lotus. Huh. What does it mean‌?  I have no idea. Ooh, that reminds me! Toph, I thought you might like this since you've probably never had a chance to bend space earth before.  Sweet! Check this out. You know, I don't think there's such a thing as "space earth". If it's from space, then it's not really "earth". Must you ruin everything‌? I can't believe I missed you.  Hey, I remember her! She helped you attack us! Yup. Back in the good old days. Oh great. It's Prince Pouty. Where's your creepy grandpa?  He's my uncle. And he's not here.  I see you worked things out with your girlfriend.  I'm not his girlfriend!  She's not my girlfriend!  Okay, okay. Sheesh. I was only teasing. So what do you want?  I need your help finding the Avatar. Hm. Doesn't sound too fun.   Does the end of the world sound like more fun?  Nyla. Who's my little, hmm, Snuffly-Wuffly? Whoa! Careful there. Okay. So who's got something with the Avatar's scent on it?  I have Aang's staff.  Well, what does that mean?  Means your friend's gone.  We know he's gone. That's why we're trying to find him.  No, I mean he's gone gone. He doesn't exist. Where are we, Momo? Maybe I'm in the Spirit World? But wait. You can see me. We could both be in the Spirit World. Nope. My bending works. Maybe if we climb to the top of the island, we can figure out where we are.  What do you mean Aang doesn't exist? Do you mean he's ... you know, dead?  Nope. We could find him if he were dead. Wow, it's a real head-scratcher. See ya.   Helpful. Real helpful.  Wait. I have another idea. There's only one other person in this world who can help us face the Fire Lord. I'll be right back with a smell sample. You saved your uncle's sweaty sandal? Ugh!   I think it's kind of sweet.  Let's do this.  Hey! Wait up! We're going to Ba Sing Se?  Your uncle's somewhere beyond the wall. Nyla's getting twitchy so he can't be too far. Good luck. It's been a long day. Let's camp and start our search again at dawn. It's a hexagon. It doesn't seem like normal rock. It's not made of earth. This is so strange. I wish I had some help right now. I wish I had Roku. I do have Roku!  You're right, Aang. All the past Avatars, all their experience and wisdom, is available to you if you look deep inside yourself.  So where am I, Roku? What is this place?  I ... don't know, Aang. But I see you are lost in more ways than one right now. I am. I need to figure out what to do once I face the Fire Lord.  Huh?  Well, look who's here!  Everyone expects me to take the Fire Lord's life, but I just don't know if I can do that.  In my life, I tried to be disciplined and show restraint, but it backfired when Fire Lord Sozin took advantage of my restraint and mercy. If I had been more decisive and acted sooner, I could have stopped Sozin and stopped the war before it started. I offer you this wisdom, Aang: You must be decisive.   What's going on? We're surrounded by old people. Not just any old people. These are great masters and friends of ours. Pakku.  It is respectful to bow to an old master, but how about a hug for your new grandfather?  That's so exciting! You and Gran-Gran must be so happy to have found each other again! I made her a new betrothal necklace and everything.  Welcome to the family, Gramp-Gramp!  You can still just call me Pakku.  How about Grand-Pakku?  No.   And this was Aang's first firebending teacher.  Jeong Jeong.  Master Piandao.  Hello, Sokka.  So wait. How do you all know each other?  All old people know each other. Don't you know that?  We're all part of the same ancient secret society. A group that transcends the divisions of the four nations.  The Order of the White Lotus.  That's the one.  The White Lotus has always been about philosophy and beauty and truth. But about a month ago, a call went out that we were needed for something important.  It came from a Grand Lotus: your uncle, Iroh of the Fire Nation.   Well, that's who we're looking for.  Then we'll take you to him.  Wait! Someone's missing from your group. Someone very important. Where's Momo?  He's gone. And so is Aang.  Oh well. So long as they have each other, I'm sure we have nothing to worry about. Let's go!  Avatar Kyoshi. I need your wisdom. In my day, Chin the Conqueror threatened to throw the world out of balance. I stopped him. And the world entered a great era of peace.   You didn't really kill Chin. Technically, he fell to his own doom because he was too stubborn to get out of the way.  Personally, I don't really see the difference, but I assure you, I would have done whatever it took to stop Chin. I offer you this wisdom, Aang: Only justice will bring peace.   I knew I shouldn't have asked Kyoshi. So, Bumi ... how did you end up escaping your imprisonment in Omashu? Escape? I didn't escape. Everybody else escaped. There I was back in Omashu, waiting for just the right moment. I didn't know what or when, but I knew I'd know it when I knew it. An eclipse. That'll do it. What do you think you're doing?  Taking back my city! You've got no firepower. And it's payback time!  Wow! You took back your whole city all by yourself!  So what about you guys? Did you do anything interesting on the day of the eclipse?  Nah.  No, not really. I need to look deep inside myself.  I am Avatar Kuruk. When I was young, I was always a go-with-the-flow kind of Avatar. People seemed to work out their own problems, and there was peace and good times in the world. But then, I lost the woman I loved to Koh, the Face Stealer. It was my fault. If I had been more attentive and more active, I could've saved her. Aang, you must actively shape your own destiny and the destiny of the world.   Well, here we are. Welcome to Old People Camp.  Where ... where is he?  Your uncle's in there, Prince Zuko. Are you okay?  No, I'm not okay. My uncle hates me, I know it. He loved and supported me in every way he could, and I still turned against him. How can I even face him?  Zuko, you're sorry for what you did, right? More sorry than I've been about anything in my entire life. Then he'll forgive you. He will. Uncle?  All these past Avatars. They keep telling me I'm gonna have to do it. They don't get it. You're right. Maybe an Air Nomad Avatar will understand where I'm coming from. I know you can't really talk. Pretending you can just helps me think. I'm going to pretend I didn't pretend to hear that.  I am Avatar Yangchen, young airbender. Avatar Yangchen, the monks always taught me that all life is sacred. Even the life of the tiniest spider-fly caught in its own web.  Yes. All life is sacred.  I know, I'm even a vegetarian. I've always tried to solve my problems by being quick or clever. And I've only had to use violence for necessary defense. And I've certainly never used it to take a life.  Avatar Aang, I know that you're a gentle spirit, and the monks have taught you well, but this isn't about you. This is about the world. But the monks taught me that I had to detach myself from the world so my spirit could be free.  Many great and wise Air Nomads have detached themselves and achieved spiritual enlightenment, but the Avatar can never do it. Because your sole duty is to the world. Here is my wisdom for you: Selfless duty calls you to sacrifice your own spiritual needs, and do whatever it takes to protect the world.   I guess I don't have a choice, Momo. I have to kill the Fire Lord.  Uncle, I know you must have mixed feelings about seeing me. But I want you to know, I am so, so, sorry, Uncle. I am so sorry and ashamed of what I did. I don't know how I can ever make it up to you. But I'll- How can you forgive me so easily? I thought you would be furious with me.  I was never angry with you. I was sad because I was afraid you had lost your way.  I did lose my way.  But you found it again. And you did it by yourself. And I am so happy you found your way here.  It wasn't that hard, Uncle. You have a pretty strong scent. Wait. Is it just me, or are those mountains getting bigger? They're not getting larger, They're getting closer! The whole island is moving! It's amazing Momo! The biggest animal in the world! I've gotta to swim around and find its face.   Uncle, you're the only person other than the Avatar who can possibly defeat the Father Lord. You mean the Fire Lord.  That's what I just said! Hmmm ... We need you to come with us!  No, Zuko, it won't turn out well.  You can beat him! And we'll be there to help. Even if I did defeat Ozai, and I don't know that I could, it would be the wrong way to end the war. History would see it as just more senseless violence, a brother killing a brother to grab power. The only way for this war to end peacefully is for the Avatar to defeat the Fire Lord.  And then ... then you would come and take your rightful place on the throne?  No. Someone new must take the throne. An idealist with a pure heart and unquestionable honor. It has to be you, Prince Zuko.  Unquestionable honor? But I've made so many mistakes. Yes, you have. You've struggled; you've suffered, but you have always followed your own path. You restored your own honor, and only you can restore the honor of the Fire Nation.  I'll try, Uncle.  Well, what if Aang doesn't come back?  Sozin's Comet is arriving, and our destinies are upon us. Aang will face the Fire Lord. When I was a boy, I had a vision that I would one day take Ba Sing Se. Only now do I see that my destiny is to take it back from the Fire Nation, so the Earth Kingdom can be free again.  That's why you gathered the members of the White Lotus. Yes. Zuko, you must return to the Fire Nation, so that when the Fire Lord falls, you can assume the throne and restore peace and order. But Azula will be there, waiting for you. I can handle Azula. Not alone! You'll need help.  You're right. Katara, how would you like to help me put Azula in her place? It would be my pleasure. What about us? What's our destiny today?  What do you think it is?  I think that, even though we don't know where Aang is, we need to do everything we can to stop the airship fleet.  And that means when Aang does face the Fire Lord, we'll be right there if he needs us.  Nothing runs faster over land or swims quicker than a giant eel hound. The air ship base is on a small island just off the Earth Kingdom shore. You should be able to intercept the fleet within a day's journey.  Thank you, Master.  So if I'm going to be Fire Lord after the war is over, what are you going to do?  After I re-conquer Ba Sing Se, I'm going to re-conquer my tea shop, and I'm going to play Pai Sho every day.  Goodbye, General Iroh.  Goodbye, everyone. Today, destiny is our friend. I know it.  A lion turtle! Maybe you can help me. Everyone, even my own past lives, are expecting me to end someone's life. But I don't know if I can do it.  The true mind can weather all the lies and illusions without being lost. The true heart can tough the poison of hatred without being harmed. Since beginningless time, darkness thrives in the void but always yields to purifying light. Wait for him. He will come.  It's time for this world to end in fire, and for a new world to be born from the ashes.  Come on out, Avatar! You can't hide in there forever! Toph, metalbend the rudder so it's jammed in a turning position. The ship will spiral and slam into the others. Got it!  Have I ever mentioned how sweet it is that you invented metalbending?  You could stand to mention it more.  My leg! Hang on Toph! Aye, aye, Captain.  Bye, space sword. I don't think boomerang's coming back, Toph. It looks like this is the end.  How did that happen? Did boomerang come back?  No, Suki did.  Come on out, little boy. You're about to be ... I'd really rather our family physician look after Little Zuzu if you don't mind. Zuzu, you don't look so good! There you are, filthy peasant! Thank you, Katara. I think I'm the one who should be thanking you.  Fire Lord Ozai, you and your forefathers have devastated the balance of this world, and now you shall pay the ultimate price! No, I'm not gonna end it like this. Even with all the power in the world, you are still weak! In the era before the Avatar, we bent not the elements but the energy within ourselves.  To bend another's energy, your own spirit must be unbendable or you will be corrupted and destroyed.  What? What did you do to me? I took away your firebending. You can't use it to hurt or threaten anyone else ever again. You did it! You should've seen yourself, it was amazing! You were all like and the Fire Lord was all like   So did you, you know ... finish the job?  I'm still alive.  I learned there was another way to defeat him and restore balance. I took his bending away.  Wow! Who taught you that? A giant lion turtle.  You have the craziest adventures when you disappear. Well, look at you, buster. Now that your firebending's gone I guess we should call you the Loser Lord.  I am the Phoenix King!   Oh, sorry. Didn't mean to offend you, Phoenix King of Getting His Butt Whooped.  Yeah! Or how about King of the ... Guys Who ... Don't Win?  Leave the nicknames to us, honey. You need some help with that? Mai! You're okay! They let you out of prison? My uncle pulled some strings. And it doesn't hurt when the new Fire Lord is your boyfriend. So does this mean you don't hate me anymore?  I think it means I actually kind of like you. But don't ever break up with me again!  Dad!  I heard what you two did. I am the proudest father in the world. And your mother would be proud, too.  There's my favorite warriors! I have to admit, I kind of missed the face paint. So how does it feel to be in uniform again?  It feels great!  Careful, Suki! Ty Lee is pretending to be a Kyoshi Warrior again. It's okay. She's one of us now.  Yeah, the girls and I really bonded in prison. And after a few chi blocking lessons, they said I could join their group. We're going to be best friends forever.  I can't believe a year ago my purpose in life was hunting you down. And now ... And now we're friends. Yeah, we friends. I can't believe a year ago I was still frozen in a block of ice. The world's so different now.  And it's gonna be even more different... when we build it together.  Please. The real hero is the Avatar. Today this war is finally over! I promised my uncle that I would restore the honor of the Fire Nation. And I will. The road ahead of us is challenging. A hundred years of fighting has left the world scarred and divided. But with the Avatar's help, we can get it back on the right path and begin a new era of love and peace.  All hail Fire Lord Zuko!   I should count myself lucky. The new Fire Lord has graced me with his presence in my lowly prison cell. You should count yourself lucky that the Avatar spared your life. Hmph. Banishing me was the best thing you could have done for my life. It put me on the right path. Perhaps your time in here could do the same for you. Why are you really here? Because you're going to tell me something. Where is my mother? Zuko, stop moving! I'm trying to capture the moment. I wanted to do a painting, so we always remember the good times together. That's very thoughtful of you, Sokka. Wait, why did you give me Momo's ears? Those are your hair loopies! At least you don't look like a boar-q-pine! My hair is not that spiky! I look like a man. And why did you paint me firebending? I thought it looked more exciting that way. Oh, you think you can do a better job, Momo?   Hey, my belly's not that big anymore. I've really trimmed down. Well I think you all look perfect!  Aang, it's time you learn of my history with Fire Lord Sozin. You need to understand how the war began, if you want to know how to end it. Meet me on my home island on the day of the summer solstice.  Okay, Roku.  You need to know the story of your great-grandfather's demise. It will reveal your own destiny.  There it is. That's Roku's home.  But, there's nothing here. Yes, there is. An entire village, hundreds of houses ... all completely buried in ash. It's never too early for a sitting with the court painter, Zuko. Make sure he gets your good side. Wait, I need to ask you something. What do you remember about our great-grandfather's history?  Oh, Zuko, it's so strange how your mind works. Fire Lord Sozin began the war, of course. He spent his early years secretly preparing for it. He was as patient as he was clever. He famously waited for the comet, later renamed Sozin's Comet, and used its power to launch his full-scale invasion of the world. In the end, he died a very old and successful man. But how did he die?  Didn't you pay any attention in school, Zuko? He died peacefully, in his sleep. He was ancient. What does it mean?  The Fire Sages keep the secret history in the Dragonbone Catacombs.  The final testimony of Fire Lord Sozin. Come, Aang.  Where're we going? To visit my past. Our shared past.  As I feel my own life dimming, I can't help but think of a time when everything was so much brighter. I remember my friend. Looks like I win again, Roku.  Are you kidding? The tree root did all the work. Nice one, Sozin.  You were friends with Fire Lord Sozin‌? Back then, he was just Prince Sozin. And he was my best friend.  Say something to her. Love is hard when you are young. You don't have to tell me.  Don't worry, it gets better. Now, come with me. We have a party to attend. Wait, whose party is it?  Sozin and I shared many things, including a birthday. Did something happen to my father? No, Prince Sozin. We are not here for you. We're here to announce the identity of the next Avatar. It is our honor to serve you, Avatar Roku. Soon the day came when my friend Roku had to leave the Fire Nation and face his destiny as the Avatar. He needed to travel the world so he could master the other elements. Hey, why aren't you packed yet, all-powerful Avatar?  Come on, show me how it's done using all four kinds of bending. I started packing, but then the Fire Sages told me I won't need any worldly possessions anymore. Oh.  It happened so fast. Everything's gonna be different now. Here, hope you're at least allowed to have this.  But this is a royal artifact. It's supposed to be worn by the Crown Prince. I want you to have it. Do they have bathrooms in the Spirit World?  As a matter of fact, they do not.  Hey, we're almost at the Southern Air Temple! This was the first stop on my Avatar journey. It was the place where I was trained to master airbending. And also where I met an old friend of yours: Monk Gyatso. No way! Hey, Gyatso, you wanna see a new glider trick?   Check this out!  He's air surfing! I can't believe I never thought of that.  That's amazing! I can't believe you were friends with Monk Gyatso just like I was!  Some friendships are so strong, they can even transcend lifetimes. After my years mastering airbending, I traveled to the Northern Water Tribe. Waterbending was especially challenging for me. But in time, I mastered it as well. I moved on to the Earth Kingdom. My earthbending master, Sud, was uncompromising, stubborn, and blunt ... ... And a lifelong friend. It was bitter work ... but the results were worth it.  Twelve long years passed before I saw my friend again. When Roku returned, he was a fully realized Avatar, and I had changed as well. Sozin! Or should I say, Fire Lord!  Customarily, my subjects bow before greeting me. But you're the exception.  After all these years, he was still my best friend. And a few months later, he was my best man.  Roku, it's that girl who didn't even know you're alive! Ta Min. I was persistent. When love is real, it finds a way. And being the Avatar doesn't hurt your chances with the ladies, either. On wedding days, we look to the future with optimism and joy. I had my own vision for a brighter future.  Excuse me. May I borrow him for a moment‌? It's not very traditional, but, okay. What's on your mind?  I've been thinking hard about the state of the world lately.  Sozin, it is my wedding! Have a cookie, dance with someone, lighten up!  I know, I know, but just hear me out. Right from the start, I was destined to be Fire Lord. And although we didn't always know it, you were destined to be the Avatar. It's an amazing stroke of fate we know each other so well, isn't it? Together, we could do ... anything.  Yeah, we could.  Our nation is enjoying an unprecedented time of peace and wealth. Our people are happy, and we're so fortunate in so many ways.  Where are you going with this? I've been thinking, we should share this prosperity with the rest of the world. In our hands is the most successful empire in history. It's time we expanded it. No! The four nations are meant to be just that: four.  Roku, you haven't even stopped to consider the possibilities.  There are no possibilities. This is the last I want to hear about this.   That was my first real test as the Avatar. Unfortunately, it was many years before I learned that Sozin had gone ahead with his plan, despite my warning.  I've seen the colonies, Sozin. How dare you occupy Earth Kingdom territory!  How dare you, a citizen of the Fire Nation, address your Fire Lord this way. Your loyalty is to our nation first. Anything less makes you a traitor. Don't do this, Sozin. Don't challenge me. It will only end badly. It's over. I'm sparing you, Sozin. I'm letting you go in the name of our past friendship. But I warn you. Even a single step out of line will result in your permanent end. Sozin and I didn't speak or see each other for twenty-five years after our battle. I spent most of my spare time here, at my home. Let's go!  Roku's island was a hundred miles away. But I could still feel it rumbling and see the black plume of smoke. I had never seen anything like this catastrophe. This is amazing, Roku! You're battling a volcano, and you're winning. Unfortunately, my success didn't last long, Aang. There was no way I could do it all.  Battling the elements was hard enough. I had to do it while I could barely breathe. The poisonous, volcanic gases were overwhelming.  It's all right Fang! Get out of here! I'm fine! Need a hand, old friend?  Sozin? There's not a moment to waste. Don't breathe the toxic gas.  It's too much. Please. Without you, all my plans are suddenly possible. I have a vision for the future, Roku. Who's ... wait, that's me, isn't it?  Make sense of our past, Aang. And you will bring peace, and restore balance in the world.  Roku? Roku! With Roku gone, and the great comet returning, the timing was perfect to change the world. I knew the next Avatar would be born an Air Nomad. So I wiped out the Air Temples. But somehow, the new Avatar eluded me. I wasted the remainder of my life searching in vain. I know he's hiding out there somewhere. The Fire Nation's greatest threat ... the last airbender. That can't be it! Where's the rest of it?   You sent this, didn't you? I found the secret history, which by the way should be renamed history most people already know! The note said that I needed to know about my great-grandfather's death, but he was still alive in the end.  No. He wasn't.  What are you talking about? You have more than one great-grandfather, Prince Zuko. Sozin was your father's grandfather. Your mother's grandfather was Avatar Roku.  Why are you telling me this? Because understanding the struggle between your two great-grandfathers can help you better understand the battle within yourself. Evil and good are always at war inside you, Zuko. It is your nature, your legacy. But, there is a bright side. What happened generations ago can be resolved now, by you. Because of your legacy, you alone can cleanse the sins of our family and the Fire Nation. Born in you, along with all the strife, is the power to restore balance to the world. This is a royal artifact. It's supposed to be worn by the Crown Prince. You mean, after all Roku and Sozin went through together, even after Roku showed him mercy, Sozin betrayed him like that‌?  It's like these people are born bad.  No, that's wrong. I don't think that was the point of what Roku showed me at all.  Then what was the point?  Roku was just as much Fire Nation as Sozin was, right? If anything, their story proves anyone's capable of great good and great evil. Everyone, even the Fire Lord and the Fire Nation have to be treated like they're worth giving a chance. And I also think it was about friendships.  Do you really think friendships can last more than one lifetime?  I don't see why not. Well, scientifically speaking, there's no way to prove that ...  Oh, Sokka, just hold hands. Water. Earth. Fire. Air. Long ago, the four nations lived together in harmony. Then, everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked. Only the Avatar, master of all four elements, could stop them, but when the world needed him most, he vanished. A hundred years passed, and my brother and I discovered the new Avatar, an airbender named Aang. And although his airbending skills are great, he has a lot to learn before he's ready to save anyone. But I believe Aang can save the world.  Yay! Aang's back!  I knew it! You signaled the Fire Navy with that flare! You're leading them straight to us, aren't you?  Aang didn't do anything! It was an accident.  Yeah. We were on the ship and there was this booby trap, and, well -- -- we booby-ed right into it.  Katara, you shouldn't have gone on that ship! Now we could all be in danger!  Don't blame Katara. I brought her there. It's my fault.  Aha! The traitor confesses! Warriors, away from the enemy. The foreigner is banished from our village.  Sokka, you're making a mistake.  No, I'm keeping my promise to Dad. I'm protecting you, from threats like him!  Aang is not our enemy! Don't you see? Aang's brought us something we haven't had in a long time: fun.  Fun?! We can't fight firebenders with fun!  You should try it sometime.  Get out of our village!   Grandmother, please. let Sokka do this!  Katara, you knew going on that ship was forbidden. Sokka is right. I think it best if the airbender leaves.  Fine! Then I'm banished, too! Come on Aang, let's go.  Where do you think going?  To find a waterbender. Aang is taking me to the North Pole.  I am? Great! Katara! Would you really choose him over your tribe? Your own family?  Katara, I don't want to come between you and your family.  So, you're leaving the South Pole? This is goodbye? Thanks for penguin sledding with me.  Where will you go? Guess I'll go back home and look for the airbenders. Wow, I haven't cleaned my room in a hundred years. Not looking forward to  It was nice meeting everyone.  Let's see your bison fly now,   Come on Appa, you can do it. Yip-yip!  Yeah, I thought so!  Ahhh! Aang, don't go! I'll miss you!  I'll miss you, too. Come on, boy.  Katara, you'll feel better after you-   You happy now? There goes my chance at becoming a waterbender! All right, ready our defenses! The Fire Nation could be on our shores any moment now!  But I gotta ...  And no potty breaks!  Yeah, I liked her too. The village! Appa, wait here.  Oh man!  Oh maaan ...  Sokka, get out of the way!  Where are you hiding him?  He'd be about this age, master of all elements?  I know you're hiding him! Show no fear!  Hey, Katara. Hey, Sokka.  Hi, Aang. Thanks for coming. Looking for me?  You're the airbender? You're the Avatar?  Aang?  No way! I've spent years preparing for this encounter. Training, meditating. You're just a child!  Well, you're just a teenager. If I go with you, will you promise to leave everyone alone?  No! Aang, do this!  Don't worry, Katara. It'll be okay. Take care of Appa for me until I get back.  Head a course for the Fire Nation. I'm going home.  We have to go after that ship, Sokka. Aang saved our tribe, now we have to save him. Katara, I --  Why can't you realize that he's on our side? If we don't help him, no one will. I know you don't like Aang, but we owe him and --  Katara! Are you gonna talk all day, or are you comin' with me?  Sokka!   Get in, we're going to save your boyfriend.  He's not my --  Whatever.  What do you two think you're doing?  You'll need these. You have a long journey ahead of you. It's been so long since I've had hope, but you brought it back to life, my little waterbender. And you, my brave warrior, be nice to your sister.  Yeah, okay Gran.  Aang is the Avatar. He's the world's only chance. You both found him for a reason. Now your destinies are intertwined with his.  There's no way we're going to catch a warship with a   Appa!   You just looove taking me out of my comfort zone, don't you? This staff will make an excellent gift for my father. I suppose you wouldn't know of fathers, being raised by monks. Take the Avatar to the prison hold, and take this to my quarters.  Hey, you mind taking this to his quarters for me?  So, I guess you've never fought an airbender before. I bet I could take you with my hands tied behind my back.  Silence. The Avatar has escaped!  Go. Fly. Soar.  Please, Appa. We need your help. Aang needs your help.  Up. Ascend. Elevate. Sokka doesn't believe you can fly, but I do, Appa. Come on, don't you want to save Aang?  What was it that kid said? Yee-haw? Hup-hup? Wah-hoo? Uh ... Yip-yip?  You did it, Sokka!  He's flying! He's flying! Katara, he's -  I mean, big deal. He's flying.  You haven't seen my staff around, have you?  Thanks anyway!  Sorry! My staff! Looks like I underestimated you.  What is that?  Appa!  Aang! No!  Aang! Aang! Aang!  Did you see what he just did?!  Now that was some waterbending!  Aang! Are you okay?  Hey, Katara. Hey, Sokka. Thanks for coming. Well, I couldn't let you have all the glory.  I dropped my staff.  Got it!  Ha! That's from the Water Tribe!  Katara!  Hurry up, Sokka!  I'm just a guy, with a boomerang. I didn't ask for all this flying and  Yip-yip! Yip-yip!  Duh? Huh?  Shoot them down!  Good news for the Fire Lord. The Fire Nation's greatest threat is just a little kid.  That "kid", Uncle, just did  I won't underestimate him again. Dig the ship out and follow them!  As soon as you're done with that.  How did you do that?! With the water? It was the most amazing thing I've ever seen!  I don't know. I just sort of ... did it.  Why didn't you tell us you were the Avatar? Because ... I never wanted to be. But Aang, the world's been waiting for the Avatar to return and finally put an end to this war.  And how am I going to do that? According to legend, you need to first master water, then earth, then fire, right?  That's what the monks told me.  Well, if we go to the North Pole, you can master waterbending!  We can learn it together!  And Sokka, I'm sure you'll get to knock some firebender heads on the way.  I'd like that. I'd reeally like that.  Then we're in this together!  All right, but before I learn waterbending, we have some serious business to attend to. Here, here and here.  What's there?   Here, we'll ride the hopping llamas. Then waaay over here, we'll surf on the backs of giant koi fish. Then back over here, we'll ride the hog monkeys. They don't like people riding them, but that's what makes it fun!  Aang ... Do you want to talk about it? Nah, just a nightmare. I was in the Avatar State, but I was outside my body watching myself. It was scary. I was scary.   Katara, I want you to have this. This amulet contains water from the Spirit Oasis. The water has unique properties. Don't lose it.  Thank you, Master Pakku.  Aang, these scrolls will help you master waterbending. But remember, they're no substitute for a real master. Sokka ... take care, son. Fly straight to the Earth Kingdom base to the east of here. General Fong will provide you with an escort to Omashu. There, you will be safe to begin your earthbending training with King Bumi. Appa, yip yip!  Say hi to Gran-Gran for me! This is what I've been missing. Who knew floating on a piece of driftwood for three weeks with no food or water, and sea vultures waiting to pluck out your liver could make one so tense? I see. It's the anniversary, isn't it?  Three years ago today, I was banished. I lost it all. I want it back. I want the Avatar, I want my honor, my throne. I want my father not to think I'm worthless.  I'm sure he doesn't. Why would he banish you if he didn't care? Uh, that came out wrong, didn't it?   My brother and my uncle have disgraced the Fire Lord, and have brought shame on all of us. You might have mixed feelings about attacking members of the Royal Family. I understand. But I assure you, if you hesitate, I will not hesitate to bring you down. Dismissed. Princess, I'm afraid the tides will not allow us to bring the ship into port before nightfall. I'm sorry, captain, but I do not know much about the tides. Could you explain something to me? Of course, Your Highness. Do the tides command this ship? I'm afraid I don't understand. You said the tides would not allow us to bring the ship in. Do the tides command this ship? No, princess. And if I were to have you thrown overboard, would the tides think twice about smashing you against the rocky shore?  No, princess.  Well then, maybe you should worry less about the tides who have already made up their mind about killing you, and worry more about me, who's still mulling it over.  I'll pull us in.  There it is! Welcome, Avatar Aang! I am General Fong, and welcome, to all of you great heroes! Appa, Momo, brave Sokka, the mighty Katara ...  Mighty Katara? I like that.  Not bad, not bad.  Avatar Aang, we were all amazed at the stories of how you singlehandedly wiped out an entire Fire Navy fleet at the North Pole. I can't imagine what it feels like to wield such devastating power. It's an awesome responsibility.  I try not to think about it too much.  Avatar, you're ready to face the Fire Lord now.  What? No I'm not!  Aang still needs to master all four elements. Why? With the kind of power he possesses, power enough to destroy hundreds of battle ships in a matter of minutes, he could defeat the Fire Lord now! But sir, the thing is, Aang can only do those things when he's in the Avatar State. See, it's this special state where-  I'm well aware! Your eyes and tattoos glow and you're able to summon unbelievable power. Without you, we'd be slaughtered before we even reach their shores. But with you leading the way, as the ultimate weapon, we could cut a swath right through to the heart of the Fire Nation.  Right, but, I don't know how to get in or out of the Avatar State, much less what to do once I'm there. So, it's decided then. I'll help you figure out how to get into the Avatar State and then you'll face your destiny.  No, nothing's decided. We already have a plan. Aang's pursuing his destiny his way. Well, while you take your time learning the elements, the War goes on. May I show you something? That's the infirmary, and those soldiers are the lucky ones. They came back. Every day, the Fire Nation takes lives. People are dying, Aang! You could end it, now. Think about it. Almost perfect. One hair out of place.  Almost isn't good enough! General Fong? Come in, Aang. Have you thought about our discussion? I'm in. I'll fight the Fire Lord.  I told the general I'd help him, by going into the Avatar State.  Aang, no! This is not the right way!  Why not? Remember when he took out the Fire Navy? He was incredible! There's a right way to do this. Practice, study, and discipline!  Or just glow it up and stop that Fire Lord!  If you two meat heads want to throw away everything we've worked for, fine, go ahead and glow it up!  Katara, I'm just being realistic! I don't have time to do this the right way!  This rare chi-enhancing tea is a natural stimulant. In an ordinary warrior, it improves strength and energy ten-fold. In you, it may induce the Avatar State. Ten-fold energy, huh?  Is it working? Is it working? I can't tell! Somebody tell me if I'm in the Avatar State 'cause I don't have a good view of myself! Am I talking too loud?  I guess he could talk the Fire Lord to death. Maybe I can shock you into the Avatar State. I love surprises!  Still not glowing. You are wearing a ceremonial piece of clothing from each of the bending nations. Now I will join the four elements into one! Water , earth , fire , air! Four elements together as one!  This is just mud!  So ... do you feel anything?  We have to find a way.  Look at these magnificent shells! I'll enjoy these keepsakes for years to come. We don't need any more useless things! You forget, we have to carry everything ourselves now!  Hello, brother. Uncle.  What are you doing here?  In my country, we exchange a pleasant hello before asking questions. Have you become uncivilized so soon, Zuzu?  Don't call me that!  To what do we owe this honor? Hmmm ... must be a family trait. Both of you so quick to get to the point. I've come with a message from home. Father's changed his mind. Family is suddenly very important to him. He's heard rumors of plans to overthrow him; treacherous plots. Family are the only ones you can really trust. Father regrets your banishment. He wants you home. Did you hear me? You should be happy. Excited. Grateful. I just gave you great news. I'm sure your brother simply needs a moment.  Don't interrupt, Uncle! I still haven't heard my thank you. I'm not a messenger. I didn't have to come all this way.  Father regrets? He ... wants me back? I can see you need time to take this in. I'll come to call on you tomorrow. Good evening. Can we talk about something? Sure.  Do you remember when we were at the air temple and you found Monk Gyatso's skeleton? It must have been so horrible and traumatic for you. I saw you get so upset that you weren't even you anymore. I'm not saying the Avatar State doesn't have incredible and helpful power ... but you have to understand ... for the people who love you, watching you be in that much rage and pain is really scary. I'm really glad you told me that. But I still need to do this.  I don't understand.  No, you don't. Every day, more and more people die. I'm already one hundred years late. Defeating the Fire Lord is the only way to stop this war. I have to try it!  I can't watch you do this to yourself. I'm not coming tomorrow. Good night.  Good night.  We're going home! After three long years, it's unbelievable!  It is unbelievable. I have never known my brother to regret anything. Did you listen to Azula? Father's realized how important family is to him! He cares about me!  I care about you! And if Ozai wants you back, well, I think it may not be for the reasons you imagine.  You don't know how my father feels about me. You don't know anything! Zuko, I only meant that in our family, things are not always what they seem.  I think you are exactly what you seem! A lazy, mistrustful, shallow old man who's always been jealous of his brother!  Sokka! Sokka, wake up. Huh? I don't think we should be trying to bring on the Avatar State. You sure? Yes.  Okay. Do you think the general will be mad? What can he say? You're the Avatar. Who knows better than you?  Wait! Don't leave without me!  Uncle! You've changed your mind! Family sticks together, right?  We're finally going home!  The thing is, I don't think we'll ever be able to trigger it on purpose. So I guess that's it.  You sure I can't change your mind? I'm sure. I can only reach the Avatar State when I'm in genuine danger. I see. I was afraid you'd say that. Aang!   Men! Attack the Avatar!  What are you doing?  I believe we're about to get results.  I'm not your enemy! I won't fight you! You can't run forever! You can't fight forever! Brother! Uncle! Welcome! I'm so glad you decided to come. Are we ready to depart, Your Highness?  Set our course for home, captain.  Home.  You heard the princess! Raise the anchors! We're taking the prisoners home!  Your Highness, I ... You lied to me!   Like I've never done that before. I wonder what crazy thing they're trying to do now. Maybe we should just make sure Aang's okay.  What's going on? The general's gone crazy! He's trying to force Aang into the Avatar State!  Good ... bird ... horse thingy ...  Maybe you can avoid me ... but she can't.  I can't move!  Don't hurt her!  Katara! No!  Stop this! You have to let her go! You could save her if you were in the Avatar State!  I'm trying ... I'm trying!  Aang, I'm sinking!   I don't see glowing!   Please!  You don't need to do this!  Apparently, I do.  It worked! It worked!  Zuko! Let's go! You know, Father blames Uncle for the loss of the North Pole. And he considers you a miserable failure for not finding the Avatar! Why would he want back home, except to lock you up where you can no longer embarrass him?  Avatar Aang! Can you hear me? Your friend is safe! It was just a trick to trigger the Avatar State ... and it worked!  It's time you learned.  The Avatar State is a defense mechanism, designed to empower you with the skills and knowledge of all the past Avatars. The glow is the combination of all your past lives, focusing their energy through your body. In the Avatar State, you are at your most powerful, but you are also at your most vulnerable. What do you mean? If you are killed in the Avatar State, the reincarnation cycle will be broken and the Avatar will cease to exist.  I'm sorry, Katara. I hope you never have to see me like that again.  Ha! Are you joking? That was almost perfect! We just have to find out a way to control you when you're like that.  You're out of your mind. I guess we'll figure it out on the way to the Fire Nation. Anybody got a problem with that? Do you still want an escort to Omashu?  I think we're all set.  Anyone who harbors these traitors will face the wrath of the Fire Lord! There will be no place left to hide! I think we're safe here. What happened? Oh no! You hear something? He's awake! Stop! Wait!  Momo? Twinkle Toes! That's got to be you! Aang, you're awake!  Are you sure? I feel like I'm dreaming.  You're not dreaming. You're finally awake.  Aang, good to see you back with the living, buddy! Sokka?  Uh-oh, somebody catch him, he's going to- Aren't you cold? I've got a lot on my mind. It's been so long, over three years since I was home. I wonder what's changed. I wonder how changed.  I just asked if you were cold, I didn't ask for your whole life story. Stop worrying. Why are we on a Fire Nation ship? Why is everyone dressed this way? And why am I the only one who's completely out of it?  You need to take it easy, okay? You got hurt pretty bad. I like your hair. I have hair? How long was I out? A few weeks. Everything okay?  We're fine, Dad.  I'm Hakoda, Katara and Sokka's father.   He knows who you are. I just called you "Dad", didn't I? I guess you're right.  Nice to officially meet you, Chief Hakoda. It's an honor to meet you. Great, great, so now you guys have finally met. So would you mind giving us a little privacy? Of course.  Are you mad at your dad or something?   What, not at all. Why would you say that? Maybe we should go upstairs. You need a healing session. Tell me where the pain feels most intense. Mmm, a little higher. Uhhh! Wow, you're definitely in the right area there. I can feel a lot of energy twisted up around there. Let me just see if I can- I went down! I didn't just get hurt, did I? It was worse than that. I was gone! But you brought me back. I just used the spirit water from the North Pole. I don't know what I did exactly.  You saved me.  You need to rest. Your Princess Azula, clever and beautiful, disguised herself as the enemy and entered the Earth Kingdom's Capital. In Ba Sing Se, she found her brother Zuko, and together they faced the Avatar ... And the Avatar fell! And the Earth Kingdom fell! Azula's agents quickly overtook the entire city. They went to Ba Sing Se's great walls ... And brought them down! The armies of the Fire Nation surged through the walls and swarmed over Ba Sing Se, securing our victory. Now the heroes have returned home! Your princess, Azula ...  And after three long years, your prince has returned ... Zuko! After what happened at Ba Sing Se, we had to get you to safety. We flew back to Chameleon Bay where we found my father and the other Water Tribe men. The Earth King decided he wanted to travel the world in disguise, so he set off alone. Well, not completely alone. Soon, the bay was overrun by Fire Nation ships. Rather than fight them all, we captured a single ship and made it our disguise. Since then we've been traveling west. We crossed through the Serpent's Pass a few days ago. We've seen a few Fire Nation ships, but none have bothered us. So what now? We've been working on a modified version of the invasion plan.   It's invasion plan. Yes, Sokka's plan. We won't be able to mount a massive invasion without the Earth King's armies, but the solar eclipse will still leave the Fire Nation vulnerable. So we're planning a smaller invasion. Just a ragtag team of our friends and allies from around the Earth Kingdom. We already ran into Pipsqueak and The Duke.  Good to see you again, Aang! And the best part is, the eclipse isn't even our biggest advantage! We have a secret...  You! Me? Yep, the whole world thinks you're dead! Isn't that great?  The world thinks I'm dead? How is that good news? That's terrible!  No, it's great! It means the Fire Nation won't be hunting us anymore! And even better, they won't be expecting you on the Day of Black Sun! No, no, no, no, no. You have no idea. This is so messed up! I'll handle this. The Avatar is back.   Aang, wait! Remember, they don't know we're not Fire Nation! Everyone just stay calm. Bato and I will take care of this. I hate not being able to do anything. Hopefully, you won't need to. Commander, why are you off course? All Western Fleet ships are supposed to be moving toward Ba Sing Se to support the occupation! Actually, we're from the Eastern Fleet. We have orders to deliver some cargo. Ahhh ... Eastern Fleet. Well, nice of Admiral Chan to let us know he was sending one of his ships our way. I'm sure Admiral Chan meant no disrespect, sir. I mean, how hard is it to write a quick note and send a hawk our way? Next time, we'll send two hawks to make sure you get the message. Sir ... Admiral Chan has been on leave for two months at Ember Island. What? Why doesn't anyone ever tell me anything? Something's not right; they should have known that. I think this is a captured ship. Just stay quiet until we're safely across the ramp. Then we'll sink this ship. They know! You seem so downcast. Has Mai gotten to you already? Though actually, Mai has been in a strangely good mood lately. I haven't seen Dad yet. I haven't seen him in three years, since I was banished. So what? So, I didn't capture the Avatar. Who cares? The Avatar is dead ... unless you think he somehow miraculously survived.  This is water from the spirit oasis at the north pole. It has special properties so I've been saving it for something important. No. There's no way he could have survived.  Well, then I'm sure you have nothing to worry about. Load the Toph! I'm gonna give us some cover! I just can't stand by and do nothing!   Aang, no! You're still hurt, and you have to stay secret! Just let us handle this. Fine.  How are we doing? Things couldn't get much worse. The universe just loves proving me wrong, doesn't it? You make it too easy! Thank you, the universe! Hey, Aang! We're going into town to find some dinner.  Well, I am pretty hungry. Maybe dinner's a good idea. Here, tie this around your head. It will cover your arrow. I'm not going out if I can't wear my arrow proudly!  Aang, come on. Be practical.  You guys go ahead without us. We'll catch up to you. I think I understand why being a secret bothers you so much. You don't want people to think you failed. You're right, I don't. But the problem is, I did fail! Aang, that's not true.  It is true. I was in Ba Sing Se. I was there! But I lost. And now the Earth Kingdom is fallen for good. It's not for good. Remember, there's still a plan. The invasion! And I hate the invasion plan, too! I don't want you or anyone else risking your lives to fix my mistakes! I've always known that I would have to face the Fire Lord. But now I know I need to do it alone.  Aang ... Katara, please! Just go ... please.  Is there anything you need? I need to redeem myself. I need my honor back. I brought you some food! Oh no ...  You've been away for a long time. I see the weight of your travels has changed you. You have redeemed yourself, my son. Welcome home. I'll leave you two alone.  What's wrong, Katara? He left. What? Aang. He just took his glider and disappeared. He has this ridiculous notion that he has to save the world alone, that it's all his responsibility. Maybe that's his way of being brave. It's not brave, it's selfish and stupid! We could be helping him and I know the world needs him, but doesn't he know how much we need him, too? How can he just leave us behind? You're talking about me too, aren't you? How could you leave us, Dad? I mean, I know we had Gran-Gran, and she loved us, but we were just so lost without you. I'm so sorry, Katara.  I understand why you left. I really do, and I know that you had to go, so why do I still feel this way? I'm so sad and angry and hurt! I love you more than anything. You and your brother are my entire world. I thought about you every day when I was gone and every night when I went to sleep, I would lie awake missing you so much it would ache. I am proud of you, Prince Zuko. I am proud because you and your sister conquered Ba Sing Se. I am proud because when your loyalty was tested by your treacherous uncle, you did the right thing and captured the traitor. And I am proudest of all of your most legendary accomplishment: you slayed the Avatar.  What did you hear? Azula told me everything. She said she was amazed and impressed at your power and ferocity at the moment of truth. A blockade. Why'd you do it?  You're going to have to be a little more specific. Why did you tell Father that I was the one who killed the Avatar? Can't this wait until the morning? It. Can't.  Fine. You seemed so worried about how Father would treat you because you hadn't captured the Avatar. I figured if I gave you the credit, you'd have nothing to worry about. But why?  Call it a generous gesture. I wanted to thank you for your help and I was happy to share the glory. You're lying.  If you say so ... You have another motive for doing this, I just haven't figured out what it is. Please Zuko, what ulterior motive could I have? What could I possibly gain by letting you get all the glory for defeating the Avatar? Unless, somehow, the Avatar was actually alive. All that glory would suddenly turn to shame and foolishness. But you said it yourself, that was impossible. Sleep well, Zuzu. I'm not gonna make it. I failed. Roku? You haven't failed, Aang. But everyone thinks I'm dead again. They think I've abandoned them, and I'm losing this war. I'm letting the whole world down. If anyone is to blame for the state of the world, it is me. I should have seen this war coming and prevented it. You inherited my problems and my mistakes. But I believe you are destined to redeem me and save the world. I don't know. You already saved the world. And you'll save the world again, but you can't give up.  You're right. I won't give up. You're okay! I have so much to do. I know, but you'll have our help. You didn't think you could get out of training just by coming to the Fire Nation, did you? What about the invasion? We'll join up with my dad and the invasion force the day of the eclipse.  Hey! What's ... oh, it's your glider. It's okay. If someone saw it, it would give away my identity. It's better for now that no one knows I'm alive. I'm so excited to spend the weekend on Ember Island. It's going to be great to hang out on the beach and do nothing.   Doing nothing is a waste of time. We're being sent away on a forced vacation. I feel like a child.  Lighten up. So Dad wants to meet with his advisers alone, without anyone else around. Don't take it personally.  Doesn't your family have a house on Ember Island?  We used to come every summer when we were kids. That must have been fun!  That was a long time ago. Welcome to Ember Island, kids.  It smells like old lady in here.  Gee, I wonder why.  Who are these two beautiful women?   Can't you tell?  It's Lo and me.  It's Li and me. Ooh, I love the seashell bedspread.   Are you serious? It looks like the beach threw up all over it.  We know you're upset that you were forced to come here this weekend. But Ember Island is a magical place. Keep an open mind. Give it a chance.  And it can help you understand yourselves and each other.  The beach has a special way ...  ... of smoothing even the most ragged edges.  Time to hit the beach! Aang, I know swimming is fun and all, but do you really think you should be exposing yourself like that? Cover up.  What? I'm wearing trunks. I know. It's your tattoos I'm worried about. What if someone sees you?  There are walls all around us. It's completely safe.  This has got to be the most boring job in the Fire Nation. Nothing ever happens.  Whoa! Let's go again!  The Avatar's alive! We'd better send a messenger hawk to the Fire Lord.  A black ribbon message. This is so exciting!  Hey, you need some help unpacking? Sure. Thanks.   Could you scooch just a little bit more to the- Perfect.   Here. This is for you.  Why would I want that? I saw it, and I thought it was pretty. Don't girls like stuff like this?  Maybe stupid girls.  Forget it!   Wow! Thanks. This is so pretty.  Not as pretty as you are.  That shell's not so great!  Ahem! Shade. Shade!  I thought, since it's so hot ... here.   Thanks. This is really refreshing.  Hey, beach bums, we're playing next. Ty Lee, get over here, now! See that girl with the silly pigtails? When she runs toward the ball, there's just the slightest hesitation of her left foot. I'm willing to bet a childhood injury has weakened her. Keep serving the ball to her left, and we'll destroy her and the rest of her team. Dismissed.  Yes! We defeated you for all time! You will never rise from the ashes of your shame and humiliation! Well. That was fun.  I'm having a party tonight. You should come by. Sure. I love parties.  Your friend can come, too.  Uh ... What about me and my brother? Aren't you going to invite us? You don't know who we are, do you? Don't you know who we are? We're Chan and Ruon-Jian. Yeah.  But, fine, you're invited. Just so you know, though, some of the most important teenagers in the Fire Nation are gonna be at this party, so try and act normal.  We'll do our best. Why didn't you tell those guys who we were? I guess I was intrigued. I'm so used to people worshiping us. They should. Yes, I know, and I love it. But, for once, I just wanted to see how people would treat us if they didn't know who we were.  Like waves washing away the footprints on the sand, Ember Island gives everyone a clean slate.  Ember Island reveals the true you.  To the party!  Um ... You're a little early. No one's here yet.  I heard you telling someone you'd be partying from dusk 'till dawn. It's dusk, so we're here.  But that's just an expression.  We are the perfect party guests. We arrive right on time, because we are very punctual. All right, listen. My dad's an admiral. He has no idea I'm having this party, so don't mess anything up.  That's a sharp outfit, Chan. Careful. You could puncture the hull of an empire-class Fire Nation battleship, leaving thousands to drown at sea, because it's so sharp.  Um ... thanks.  Hey! First ones here, huh?  He thinks he's so great. Well, what do you think of him? I don't have any opinion about him. I hardly know him. You like him, don't you?  So how do you know Ty Lee? I met her at the beach today. She was pretty impressed by a sand pagoda that I made for her.  Well, I met her first.  Look, i-it doesn't matter who I met first, 'cause I like you all.  But which one of us do you like? Yeah. Tell us.  I don't know! I don't know! Oh, I'm glad you're here. Those boys won't leave me alone. I guess they all just like me too much. Come on, Ty Lee. You can't be this ignorant.  What are you talking about?  Those boys only like you because you make it so easy for them. You're not a challenge. You're a tease. It's not like they actually care who you are. Okay, okay, calm down. I didn't mean what I said. Look, maybe I just said it because I was a little ... jealous.  What? You're jealous of me? But you're the most beautiful, smartest, perfect girl in the world.  Well, you're right about all those things. But, for some reason, when I meet boys, they act as if I'm going to do something horrible to them.  But you probably would do something horrible to them. I'm sure they're just intimidated by you. Okay, look, if you want a boy to like you, just look at him and smile a lot and laugh at everything he says even if it's not funny.  Well, that sounds really shallow and stupid ... Let's try it.  Okay. Hey there, sweet sugar cakes. How you liking this party? I'm bored. I know. I'm hungry. So what? So, find me some food. Sure.  Chan, I'm ready for a tour of the house. Is this your first time on Ember Island? No. I used to come here years ago.  It's a great place, if you like sand. Yeah, it's like, welcome to Sandy Land! Your arms look so strong. Yeah, I know. You're pretty.  Together, you and I will be the strongest couple in the entire world! We will dominate the Earth!  Uh ... I got to go.  Hey, watch it! That food was for my cranky girlfriend! What are you doing?  Stop talking to my girlfriend!  Relax. It's just a party.  Zuko, what is wrong with you? What's wrong with me?  Your temper is out of control. You blow up over every little thing. You're so impatient and hotheaded and angry!  Well, at least I feel something, as opposed to you. You have no passion for anything! You're just a big blah!  It's over, Zuko. We're done.  Who broke my nana's vase? That's it! You're out of here!  I was just leaving.  Have fun by yourself, . Nice. Guys, you're all gonna think I'm crazy, but it feels like a metal man is coming. I thought I'd find you here.  Those summers we spent here seem so long ago. So much has changed. Come down to the beach with me. Come on. This place is depressing.  Hey.  Where's your new boyfriend? Are you cold?  I'm freezing.  I'll make a fire. There's plenty of stuff to burn in there. This is crazy! How can we beat a guy who blows things up with his mind?  We can't! Jump on Appa! I'll try to distract him! I'm okay.  Well, that was random.  I don't think so. I get the feeling he knows who we are. What are you doing?  What does it look like I'm doing?  But, it's a painting of your family.  You think I care?  I think you do. You don't know me, so why don't you just mind your own business?   I know you.  No, you don't. You're stuck in your little "Ty Lee world" where everything's great all the time. Zuko, leave her alone.  "I'm so pretty. Look at me. I can walk on my hands. Whoo!" Circus freak.  Yes, I'm a circus freak. Go ahead and laugh all you want. You want to know why I joined the circus? Here we go.  Do you have any idea what my home life was like? Growing up with six sisters who look exactly like me? It was like I didn't even have my own name. I joined the circus because I was scared of spending the rest of my life as part of a matched set. At least I'm different now. "Circus freak" is a compliment.  Guess that explains why you need ten boyfriends, too.  I'm sorry, what?  Attention issues. You couldn't get enough attention when you were a kid, so you're trying to make up for it now.  Well, what's your excuse, Mai? You were an only child for fifteen years, but even with all that attention, your aura is this dingy, pasty, gray ...  I don't believe in auras.  Yeah, you do not believe in anything.  Oh, well, I'm sorry I can't be as high-strung and crazy as the rest of you.  I'm sorry, too. I wish you would be high-strung and crazy for once instead of keeping all your feeling bottled up inside. She just called your aura dingy. Are you gonna take that?  What do you want from me? You want a teary confession about how hard my childhood was? Well, it wasn't. I was a rich only child who got anything I wanted ... as long as I behaved and sat still, and didn't speak unless spoken to. My mother said I had to keep out of trouble. We had my dad's political career to think about.  Well, that's it, then. You have a controlling mother who had certain expectations, and if you strayed from them, you were shut down. That's why you're afraid to care about anything, and why you can't express yourself.  You want me to express myself? Leave me alone!  I like it when you express yourself.   Don't touch me! I'm still mad at you.   My life hasn't been that easy either, Mai. Whatever. That doesn't excuse the way you've been acting. Calm down, you guys. This much negative energy is bad for your skin. You'll totally break out. Bad skin? Normal teenagers worry about bad skin. I don't have that luxury. My father decided to teach me a permanent lesson on my face!   Sorry, Zuko, I ...  For so long I thought that if my dad accepted me, I'd be happy. I'm back home now, my dad talks to me. Ha! He even thinks I'm a hero. Everything should be perfect, right? I should be happy now, but I'm not. I'm angrier than ever and I don't know why!  There's a simple question you need to answer, then. Who are you angry at?  No one. I'm just angry.  Yeah, who are you angry at, Zuko?  Everyone. I don't know.   Is it Dad?  No, no.  Your uncle? Me?  No, no, n-no, no!  Then who? Who are you angry at?  Answer the question, Zuko.  Talk to us.  Come on, answer the question. Come on, answer it.  I'm angry at myself! Why?  Because I'm confused. Because I'm not sure I know the difference between right and wrong anymore. You're pathetic.  I know one thing I care about. I care about you.   Well, those were wonderful performances, everyone.  I guess you wouldn't understand, would you, Azula? Because you're just so perfect.  Well, yes, I guess you're right. I don't have sob stories like all of you. I could sit here and complain how our mom liked Zuko more than me, but I don't really care. My own mother thought I was a monster. She was right, of course, but it still hurt. What Lo and Li said came true. The beach did help us learn about ourselves. I feel all smoothed. I'll always remember this.  You know what would make this trip really memorable?  We've got some bad news, Chan.  Party's over.  It's pricey ... but I really do like it. Then you should get it, you deserve something nice. I do, don't I? But no, it's too expensive. I shouldn't. All right, then don't.  You know what? I'm gonna get it.  Psst, psst! Hey, you kids love earthbending? You like ... throwing rocks? Then check out Master Yu's Earthbending Academy. Look! There's a coupon on the back! The first lesson is free. Who knows? This Master Yu could be the earthbending teacher you've been looking for. Take your stances! Now, strike as if you're punching through your opponent's head!  So, are you ready to commit to more lessons? If you pay for the whole year in advance, I'll bump you up to the next belt! Ehhh, he's not the one.   I think The Boulder's going to win back the belt at Earth Rumble VI. He's going to have to fight his way through the best earthbenders in the world to get a shot at the champ. Excuse me, but where is this earthbending tournament, exactly?  It's on the island of Noneya ... "Noneya" business!  Oh, I got to remember that one!  I'll take care of this. Hey, strong guys! Wait up!   What was I thinking? I don't need a new bag! Why did you let me buy this? You ready to find an earthbending teacher? Because we're going to Earth Rumble VI!  How'd you get them to tell you? Oh ... a girl has her ways.  Hey, front row seats! I wonder why no one else is sitting here. I guess that's why.  Welcome to Earth Rumble VI! I am your host, Xin Fu!  This is just going to be a bunch of guys chucking rocks at each other, isn't it?  That's what I paid for. The rules are simple. Just knock the other guy out of the ring, and you win! Round one: The Boulder vs. The Big Bad Hippo!   Listen up, Hippo. You may be big, but you ain't bad! The Boulder's gonna win this in a landslide! Hippo ... mad! Unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen! The Hippo is rocking the boat! The Boulder wins!  How about The Boulder? He's got some good moves.  I don't know. Bumi said I need a teacher who listens to the earth. He's just listening to his big muscles. What do you think, Sokka? Next match ... The Boulder versus Fire Nation Man!  Please, to rise for Fire Nation national anthem! Fire Lord, my flame burns for thee!  Go back to the Fire Nation! No, no, please! Yeah! Wooo! The Boulder knows how to put the hurt in the dirt! Yeah! Woohoo! Now, the moment you've all been waiting for. The Boulder versus your champion ... the Blind Bandit! She can't really be blind. It's just part of her character, right?  I think she is.  I think she is ... going down! The Boulder feels conflicted about fighting a young blind girl.  Sounds to me like you're scared, Boulder!  The Boulder's over his conflicted feelings, and now he's ready to bury you screen in a rock-alanche! Whenever you're ready, The Pebble!  It's on!  Ooooooh! Your winner, and still the champion, the Blind Bandit! How did she do that? She waited ... and listened. To make things a little more interesting, I'm offering up this sack of gold pieces to anyone who can defeat the Blind Bandit! What? No one dares to face her? I will! Go Aang! Avenge The Boulder! Do people really want to see two little girls fighting out here? Oooh.  I don't really want to fight you. I want to talk to you. Boo! No talking!  Don't boo at him! Somebody's a little light on his feet! What's your fighting name: the Fancy Dancer? Where'd you go? Please, wait! There you are!  Please, listen! I need an earthbending teacher, and I think it's supposed to be you!  Whoever you are, just leave me alone. Wait!  Way to go, champ! I've got to admit, now I'm really glad I bought this bag. It matches the belt, perfectly.  That is a big relief. If we want to find the Blind Bandit, the Earthbending Academy is a great place to start. Oh great, you again.  Yeah, I didn't think so.  Nicely done. Hey! You're that kid who beat the Blind Bandit! We need to talk to her. Do you guys know where she lives? The Blind Bandit's a mystery. She shows up to fight, then disappears.  Let me handle this. You're not telling us everything!  No, no, I-I swear it's true. No one knows where she goes, or who she really is. That's because we're asking about the wrong person. In my vision, I saw a girl, in a white dress, with a pet flying boar. Know anybody like that? Well, a flying boar is the symbol of the Beifong family. They're the richest people in town. Probably the whole world. Yeah, but they don't have a daughter. A flying boar is good enough for me. Let's check it out.  Yeah, you better leave. Hey, I got my eye on you.  Water Tribe. I'm telling you, The Boulder was standing right there. I saw the kid strike, but there was no earthbending. Nothing made contact. The Blind Bandit just fell out of the ring. She must've took a dive and split the money with the kid.  Nobody cheats Xin Fu. That's the flying boar from my vision. Come on! What are you doing here, Twinkle Toes?! How did you know it was me? Don't answer to Twinkle Toes, it's not manly! You're the one whose bag matches his belt. How did you find me? Well, a crazy king told me I had to find an earthbender who listens to the earth. And then I had a vision in a magic swamp, and -  What Aang is trying to say is, he's the Avatar. And if he doesn't master earthbending soon, he won't be able to defeat the Fire Lord. Not my problem. Now, get out of here, or I'll call the guards. Look, we all have to do our part to win this war, and yours is to teach Aang earthbending. Guards! Guards, help! Toph, what happened? I ... thought I heard someone. I got scared. You know your father doesn't want you wandering the grounds without supervision, Toph.  I'm pleased to hear that Toph's private lessons are going well. But I want to be sure she's not trying anything too dangerous. Absolutely not. I am keeping her at a beginner's level. Basic forms and breathing exercises only. Very good.  Excuse me, sir, but you have a visitor. Who thinks they are so important they can just come to my home unannounced? Uh ... the Avatar, sir.  Blow on it. It's too hot for her. Allow me.  Avatar Aang, it's an honor to have you visit us. In your opinion, how much longer do think the war will last? I'd like to defeat the Fire Lord by the end of summer, but I can't do that without finding an earthbending teacher first.   Well, Master Yu is the finest teacher in the land. He's been teaching Toph since she was little. Then she must be a great earthbender! Probably good enough to teach someone else! Ow! Toph is still learning the basics. Yes, and sadly, because of her blindness, I don't think she will ever become a true master. Oh, I'm sure she's better than you think she is.  What's your problem?!  What's your problem? Well, shall we move to the living room for dessert, then? Good night, buddy. Relax. Look, I'm sorry about dinner. Let's call a truce, okay? Even though I was born blind, I've never had a problem seeing. I see with earthbending. It's kind of like seeing with my feet. I feel the vibrations in the Earth, and I can see where everything is. You, that tree ... even those ants.  That's amazing. My parents don't understand. They've always treated me like I was helpless. Is that why you became the Blind Bandit? Yeah. Then why stay here where you're not happy? They're my parents. Where else am I supposed to go? You could come with us. Yeah. You guys get to go wherever you want. No one telling you what to do, that's the life. It's just not my life. We're being ambushed! I think you kids owe me some money. Whoever took Aang and Toph left this.  "If you want to see your daughter again, bring five hundred gold pieces to the arena." It's signed Xin Fu and The Boulder.  I can't believe it ... I have The Boulder's autograph! Master Yu, I need you to help me get my daughter back. We're going with you. Poor Toph, she must be so scared ... You think you're so tough? Why don't you come up here so I can snap that grin off your face?   I'm not smiling. Toph! Here's your money. Now let them go. What about Aang?  I think the Fire Nation will pay a hefty price for the Avatar. Now, get out of my ring. Go, I'll be okay. Toph, there's too many of them. We need an earthbender. We need you! My daughter is blind. She is blind and tiny and helpless and fragile. She cannot help you! Yes, I can. Let him go! I beat you all before and I'll do it again! The Boulder takes issue with that comment. Wait! They're mine. Hit it harder! I'm trying! I never knew. Your daughter's amazing! She's the greatest earthbender I've ever seen. Dad, I know it's probably hard for you to see me this way. But the obedient little helpless blind girl that you think I am just isn't me. I love fighting. I love being an earthbender, and I'm really, really good at it. I know I've kept my life secret from you, but you were keeping me secret from the whole world. You were doing it to protect me, but I'm twelve years old and I've never had a real friend. So, now that you see who I really am, I hope it doesn't change the way you feel about me. Of course it doesn't change the way I feel about you, Toph. It's made me realize something. It has? Yes. I've let you had far too much freedom. From now on you'll be cared for and guarded twenty-four hours a day. But, Dad! We're doing this for your own good, Toph. Please escort the Avatar and his friends out. They are no longer welcome here. I'm sorry, Toph. I'm sorry too. Goodbye, Aang.  Don't worry, we'll find you a teacher. There are plenty of amazing earthbenders out there.  Not like her. Toph! What are you doing here? My dad changed his mind. He said I was free to travel the world.  Well, we'd better get out of here, before your dad changes his mind again. Good idea. You're going to be a great teacher, Toph. Speaking of which, I want to show you something. Okay. Now we're even. Um, I'll take the belt back. Ow!  Sorry. I know you two are very different. But I believe you have a common interest. The Avatar has kidnapped my daughter. I want you to do whatever it takes to bring her home.  Absolutely not! The Yuyan Archers stay here. Your request is denied, Commander Zhao. Colonel Shinu, please reconsider ... Their precision is legendary. The Yuyan can pin a fly to a tree from one hundred yards away ... without killing it. You're wasting their talents using them as mere security guards. I can do whatever I want with their talents, they're my archers, and what I say goes. But my search for the Avatar is-  Is nothing but a vanity project! We're fighting a real war here, and I need every man I've got, commander. But-!  That's final! I don't wanna hear another word about it!  News from Fire Lord Ozai?  It appears I've been promoted to Admiral. My request ... is now an order.  This should bring your fever down. You know what I love about Appa the most? His sense of humor. That's nice. I'll tell him.  Classic Appa. How's Sokka doing? Not so good, being out in that storm really did a number on him. I couldn't find any ginger root for the tea. But I found a map. There's an herbalist institute on top of that mountain. We could probably find a cure for Sokka there. Aang, he's in no condition for travel. Sokka just needs more rest. I'm sure he'll be better by tomorrow.  Not you too! Relax, it was just a little cough. I'm fi-   That's how Sokka started yesterday. Now look at him! He thinks he's an earthbender!  Take that, you rock!  A few more hours and you'll be talking nonsense, too. I'm going to go find some medicine! Uh, maybe it's safer if I go on foot. Keep an eye on them guys.  Ha, ha! You guys are killing me! We haven't been able to pick up the Avatar's trail since the storm, but if we continue heading northeast ...  What do they want? Perhaps, a sporting game of Pai Sho!  The hunt for the Avatar has been given prime importance. All information regarding the Avatar must be reported directly to Admiral Zhao. Zhao has been promoted? Well, good for him!   I've got nothing to report to Admiral Zhao. Now get off my ship and let us pass. Admiral Zhao is not allowing ships in or out of this area. Off my ship!  Excellent! I take the pot! But you're all improving! I'm certain you will win if we play again.  Says here that the Avatar can create tornadoes and run faster than the wind. Pretty amazing! Ah, that's just a bunch of Fire Lord propaganda! There's no way that's true!  Katara, please, water.  Listen carefully, Momo. I need you to take this to the river, and fill it with water. Got it?   Hello, I'm sorry to barge in like this, but I need some medicine for my friends, they have fevers and they were coughing-  Settle down, young man. Your friends are going to be fine. I've been up here for over forty years you know, used to be others, but they all left years ago. Now it's just me and Miyuki. That's nice. Wounded Earth Kingdom troops still come by now and again, brave boys, and thanks to my remedies they always leave in better shape they when they arrive. That's nice. Are you almost done? Hold on, I just need to add one last ingredient. Oh, sandalwood ... oh, er, uh, that won't do, banana leaf? Ah, nope, uh, ginger root, uh uh, oh where is that pesky little plant? Is everything okay? It's been almost an hour and you haven't given the men an order. I don't care what they do. Don't give up hope yet. You can still find the Avatar before Zhao.  How, Uncle? With Zhao's resources, it's just a matter of time before he captures the Avatar. My honor, my throne, my country, I'm about to lose them all. Ah! Plum blossom!   Finally! Thanks for all your help! Hands off! Ow!  What do you think you're doing?  Taking the cure to my friends.  This isn't a cure! It's Miyuki's dinner. Plum blossom is her favorite. What about my friends? Well, all they need are some frozen wood frogs. There's plenty down in the valley swamp.  What am I supposed to do with frozen frogs? Why, suck on them of course!  Suck on them? The frog skin excretes a substance that will cure your friends. Be sure to get plenty because once those little critters thaw out, they're useless! You're insane, aren't you?  That's right! Well, don't stand there all day! Go! Uh ... I think you dropped this ... A frog! So this is the great Avatar. Master of all the elements. I don't know how you've managed to elude the Fire Nation for a hundred years, but your little game of hide and seek is over.  I've never hidden from you! Untie me and I'll fight you right now! Uhh, no. Tell me, how does it feel to be the only airbender left? Do you miss your people? Don't worry, you won't be killed like they were. See, if you die you will just be reborn and the Fire Nation would have to start searching all over again. So I'll keep you alive, but just barely. Blow all the wind you want, but your situation is futile. There is no escaping this fortress, and no one is coming to rescue you.  Water ...  Momo should be back any minute.  Ugh! No, Momo, water. Wa-ter! Aang, what in the world is taking you so long? All clear. All clear. Go on in. We are the sons and daughters of fire, the superior element! Until today only one thing stood our path to victory, the Avatar. I am here to tell you that he is now my prisoner! This is the year Sozin's Comet returns to grant us its power! This is the year the Fire Nation breaks through the walls of Ba Sing Se and burns the city to the ground!  What? No! Don't leave, frogs! My friends are sick and they need you! Please go back to being frozen! Who are you? What's going on? Are you here to rescue me? I'll take that as a "yes." My frogs! Come back! And stop thawing out! Wait! My friends need to suck on those frogs!  How many times do I have to tell you, Momo? We need water, wa-ter. Oh forget it. Aang, please, hurry.  Who's this "Aang" kid you keep talking about, Your Highness?  I want a full transcription of my speech sent to the Fire Lord, along with glowing testimonials from all of the ranking officers present, and – Sir, should I hold off sending that speech to the Fire Lord? There, on the wall!  The Avatar has escaped! Close all the gates immediately!  Stay close to me! Take this. Jump on my back! Give me the next one! Hold your fire! The Avatar must be captured alive!  Open the gate. Admiral, what are you doing? Let them out, now! How could you let them go? A situation like this requires ... precision. Do you have a clear shot? Knock out the thief. I'll deliver him to the Fire Lord along with the Avatar. Quick! Recover the Avatar!  You know what the worst part of being born over a hundred years ago is? I miss all the friends I used to hang out with. Before the war started, I used to always visit my friend Kuzon. The two of us, we'd get in and out of so much trouble together. He was one of the best friends I ever had, and he was from the Fire Nation, just like you. If we knew each other back then, do you think we could have been friends, too? Where have you been, Prince Zuko? You missed music night! Lieutenant Jee sang a stirring love song. I'm going to bed. No disturbances. Suck on these. They'll make you feel better.  Aang, how was your trip? Did you make any new friends? No, I don't think I did. Mmmm! This is tasty! Mmm!  No one can make tea like Uncle , but hopefully I learned a thing or two. Would you like to hear Uncle's favorite tea joke? Sure.  I like jokes. Bring it! Okay. Well, I can't remember how it starts, but the punch line is "Leaf me alone, I'm bushed!" Well, it's funnier when Uncle tells it. Right ... maybe that's because he remembers the whole thing. It's nice to get a chance to relax a little. It hardly ever happens. Hey, can I talk to you for a second?  So, what's up?  If someone was captured by the Fire Nation, where would they be taken? What do you mean? Who was captured? When the invasion plan failed, some of our troops were taken. I just want to know where they might be. I can't tell you. What? Why not? Trust me. Knowing would just make you feel worse.  It's my dad. He was captured too. I need to know what I put him through. It's not good, Sokka. Please. My guess is, they were taken to the Boiling Rock. What's that? The highest security prison in the Fire Nation. It's on an island in the middle of a boiling lake. It's inescapable. So, where is this place? Why do you need to know? What are you planning? Nothing. Boy, you're so paranoid. It's in the middle of a volcano between here and the Fire Nation. You guys actually flew right past it on your way here. Thanks, Zuko. Just knowing makes me feel better.  Yeah, I'm sure it does.  Shhh. Not up to anything, huh?  Fine, you caught me. I'm gonna rescue my dad. You happy now? I'm never happy.  Look, I have to do this. The invasion plan was my idea, it was my decision to stay when things were going wrong. It's my mistake, and it's my job to fix it. I have to regain my honor. You can't stop me, Zuko.  You need to regain your honor? Believe me, I get it. I'm going with you. No. I have to do this alone. How are you going to get there? On Appa? Last time I checked, prisons don't have bison daycares. We'll take my war balloon.  What does it say? "Need meat. Gone fishing. Back in a few days. Sokka and Zuko." One more thing. "Aang, practice your firebending while I'm gone. Do twenty sets of fire fists and ten hot squats every time you hear a badgerfrog croak. Zuko."  Nobody else has homework. One hot squat, two hot squat, three hot squat, four hot squat ... Pretty clouds. Yeah ... fluffy. What? What? Oh, I didn't say anything. You know, a friend of mine actually designed these war balloons. No kidding. Yep, a balloon ... but for war. If there's one thing my dad's good at, it's war.  Yeah, it seems to run in the family.  Hey, hold on. Not everyone in my family is like that. I know, I know, you've changed.  I meant my uncle. He was more of a father to me. And I really let him down. I think your uncle would be proud of you. Leaving your home to come help us? That's hard. It wasn't that hard. Really? You didn't leave behind anyone you cared about? Well, I did have a girlfriend. Mai.  That gloomy girl who sighs a lot?  Yeah. Everyone in the Fire Nation thinks I'm a traitor. I couldn't drag her into it. My first girlfriend turned into the moon.  That's rough, buddy. There it is! There's plenty of steam to keep us covered. As long as we're quiet, we should be able to navigate through it without being caught.  We're going down! The balloon's not working anymore!  The air outside is just as hot as the air inside so we can't fly!  So what are we supposed to do? I don't know! Crash-landing?  How are we gonna get off the island if the balloon won't work? We'll figure something out! I suspected it might be a one-way ticket. You knew this would happen and you wanted to come anyway?  My dad might be here! I had to come and see! Uncle always said I never thought things through. But this ... this is just crazy!  Hey, I never wanted you to come along in the first place! And for the record, I always think things through! But my plans haven't exactly worked, so this time, I'm playing it by ear. So there.  What are you doing? It doesn't work anyway, and we don't want anyone to find it. I hope you know what you're doing. There's no turning back now. I hope these disguises work. We just need to lay low and find my dad as soon as possible. Guards! There's a scuffle in the yard. Come on. I didn't do anything! I'm going back to my cell.  Stop right there, Chit Sang. We can't blow our cover. I've had it with your unruly behavior! What did I do? He wants to know what he did. Isn't that cute?  Uh, very cute, sir. Super cute.  You didn't bow down when I walked by, Chit Sang! What? That's not a prison rule. Do it! Make me. Tsk, tsk. Firebending is prohibited. You're going in the cooler. You! Help me take him in.  Meet back here in an hour.  The warden will deal with you soon. Can you believe this guy?  Prisoners! Am I right? Ugh. Tell me about it. Hey, new guy! I know it's the rule to have your helmet on at all times, but this is the lounge. Relax. But what if there's an incident? If I'm not prepared, someone could strike me on the head. Give it a week, he'll loosen up. Can the new guy ask you veterans a few questions about the prison?  No, you can't date the female guards. Trust me, you don't want to.  No, that's not it. The Boiling Rock, it holds the Fire Nation's most dangerous criminals, right? So what about war prisoners? It sure looks cold in there. That's why we call it the cooler. He won't be firebending there. It's the warden! Look alive!  So Chit Sang, I hear you used firebending to try to escape. You should know better. I wasn't trying to escape. He's lying! I saw it with my own eyes.  No one has ever, ever escaped from here. I'd sooner jump in the Boiling Lake myself than let that record fall. Don't forget it. Now go back to your shivering. Hey there, fellow guard, how goes it?  Zuko? Shhh! Listen, I asked around the lounge. There are no Water Tribe prisoners. I'm afraid your father's not here. What? Are you sure, did you double-check? Yeah, I'm sure. No. No!  I'm really sorry, Sokka. So we came all this way for nothing? I failed ... again. Ah, what would Uncle say? Sometimes, clouds have two sides, a dark and light, and a silver lining in between. It's like a silver sandwich! So ... when life seems hard ... take a bite out of the silver sandwich! Maybe we haven't failed after all! That's the spirit! I can't believe that worked. I didn't even know what I was saying. No, what you said made no sense at all. But look ... It's Suki!  Prisoners, back in your cells!  What is it? Did I do something wrong?  You mean you don't recognize me?  You people all look the same to me.  Oh? Then maybe you'll recognize this. Sokka! It's you!  The other Kyoshi Warriors, are they here? No. I don't know where they are. They locked me in here because I'm the leader.  Well, you won't be here for long. I'm busting you out.  I'm so glad to see you Sokka. I knew you'd come. Excuse me. I need to get into that cell.  No, you can't go in there! The lights are out. The prisoner could sneak up on you.  Step aside, fool. Hey, hey, what are you doing?  Guard, help! I think he's an impostor! Arrest him! Get him off me and arrest him!  You're under arrest! Don't worry, I'll figure it out. Well, well, well. I never thought I'd find you in here, Prince Zuko.  How did you know who I am? How could I not? You broke my niece's heart.  You're Mai's uncle? I never meant to hurt her. Quiet! You're my special prisoner now. And you'd best behave. If these criminals found out who you are, the traitor prince who let his nation down, why they'd tear you to shreds.  So what's in it for you? Why don't you just tell my father to come collect a reward? Oh, in due time, believe me, I intend to collect.  Oh, good, you guys have met. Actually, we met a long time ago. We did?  Yeah, you kind of burned down my village.  Oh, sorry about that. Nice to see you again. So, listen, I think I have an escape plan. I checked out the coolers again, and the point of them is to keep firebenders contained, right? Yeah ... So, they're completely insulated and sealed to keep the cold in. Well, to keep the cold in, it also has to keep the heat out, right? Just get to the point, Sokka. It's a perfect boat for getting through the boiling water.  The cooler as a boat? Are you sure? I'm telling you, it'll work. I walked around the perimeter. There's a blind spot between two guard towers. It's the perfect launching point. I already tested it out. We'll roll the cooler into the water and just float with the current. It'll take us straight across. As long as we don't make a sound, no one will notice. And bing-bang-boom, we're home free. But how are you going to get the cooler out?  Yeah, how are you going to get the cooler out?   What? We didn't ... w-we didn't say that. Yeah, you heard wrong. I heard you hatching an escape plan, and I want in. There's nothing to get in on. Yeah, the only thing we're hatching is ... an egg?  Okay, well, I come with you or the warden hears about this egg, too.  I guess we have no choice. Okay, you're in. Now first we need someone to unbolt the cooler, from the inside. Oh, I can get you inside. Hey! What are you, stupid? Watch where you're going!  Hey, you watch who you're shoving!  I think you mean whom I'm shoving!  I need backup over here! No firebending! Into the cooler! I can take you back to your cell if you've learned your lesson.  Yes, I have ... completely.   I got Suki and Chit Sang out of their cells a few minutes ago. They'll be waiting for us at the shore. Someone's coming!  Yeah, new arrivals coming in at dawn. Anybody interesting? Nah, just the usual. Some robbers, a couple traitors, some war prisoners, though I did hear there might be a pirate. No fooling! War prisoners. It could be your father. I know. Well, what should we do? Are we going ahead with the plan or are we waiting another night? I don't know! Is it right for me to risk Suki's freedom, all of our freedom on the slim chance that my dad is gonna show up? It's your call, Sokka. Took you guys long enough. This here's my girl and my best buddy, they're coming too. Fine. Everybody in the cooler. Let's go.  Are you sure you wanna go? You're the one who said you wanted to redeem yourself. Redeem your honor. Rescuing your dad is your chance.  Your dad?  If I had just cut my losses at the invasion, maybe we wouldn't be in this mess. Maybe sometimes it's just better to call it quits before you fail. No, it's not. Look Sokka, you're going to fail a lot before things work out.  That supposed to make me feel better?  Even though you'll probably fail over and over and over again ... Seriously, not helping.  You have to try every time. You can't quit because you're afraid you might fail.  Hey, if you two are done cuddling, can we get a move on? No. I'm staying. You guys go. You've been here long enough. I'm not leaving without you, Sokka. I'm staying, too. Not me, I'm out. Let's roll, baby.  We gave up our only chance of escaping. I hope we haven't just made a huge mistake. Aah, this current is so slow. I can use this to paddle.  Guards! Secure the perimeter and lock down the prisoners! Now! The plan failed! They're caught! Get the fugitives and throw them in the cooler!  Uh ... they are in a cooler, sir. One that's bolted down and not floating in the water! This is a lockdown! We have new prisoners arriving! Everything must be completely secure! The gondola's moving. This is it. If my dad's not there, we've risked everything for nothing. We had to.  Come on, come on ... Is that him?  My dad doesn't have a nose ring. Where is he? That's it? That can't be it.  I'm sorry, Sokka. Oh, no. Hey, you! Get off the gondola!  Dad ... Line 'em up for the warden! Dad ... Excuse me, coming through. The warden wants me over there. Sorry!  Welcome to the Boiling Rock. I'm sure you've all heard the horrible rumors about our little island. Well, I just want to tell you that they don't have to be true, as long as you do everything I say. Look me in the eye when I'm talking to you.  No. Oh? You'd rather look at my shoes? Then take a look! I know exactly who you are, Hakoda of the Water Tribe. So strong-willed. But don't worry, we'll get rid of that in time. Now look me in the eye!  See, isn't that better? You will all do as I say or pay the price. You will all-  Are you okay, sir?  I'm fine! Get these prisoners out of my sight!  Thank goodness you're okay.  If you take one step closer, you'll see just how "okay" I am.  Dad, it's me.  Sokka, my son. You know Sokka, you should be more careful with that guard outfit on. I almost punched you in the gut.  Yeah, I ran into that problem earlier.  Are you comfortable, Chit Sang?  If you're trying to get me to talk, forget it! I'm not a squealer!  Chit Sang, I only asked if you were comfortable.  Well, yeah, actually I am pretty comfortable. Are you still comfortable? No. I know you and your cronies are not smart enough to come up with that little escape plan. So you're gonna tell me ... who is?  So where's Bato? Where's everyone else from the invasion? The others are being held at a prison near the Fire Nation palace. They singled me out as their leader and sent me here. But before I left, I met some young women who said they knew you. The ... Oshinama Fighters?  You mean the Kyoshi Warriors? That's right. Their leader Suki is here and she's gonna escape with us.  Good. We'll need all the help we can get. And you know Prince Zuko? The son of the Fire Lord? I don't know him, but I know of him. Well, he's here too.  Sounds like a major problem. Actually, he's on our side now. I know. I had the same reaction. After all he's done, it was hard to trust him. But he's really proven himself, and I never would've found you without his help.  So, do you have a plan?  We had one, but some of the other prisoners got involved and ruined it. I dunno if there's another way off this island.  Sokka, there's no prison in the world that can hold two Water Tribe geniuses. Then we'd better find two.  Zuko, are you there?  I'm here. I just got done talking to my dad. We came up with an escape plan together.  What are you doing here?  I was just telling this dirty lowlife what I think of him! Well, you'll have to do that later. He's coming with us.  Why?  Because we have orders straight from the warden, that's why! Could I just get ten more seconds to rough him up a bit?  Fine, ten seconds.  Take that ... and this!   Newbie.  We have a new plan, but it's gonna need a big distraction. Be in the yard in one hour.  All right, that's enough.  What are you doing? Where are you taking me? I didn't do anything wrong! Come on, Zuko. We all know that's a lie.  Mai! How is he? I think he's ready to talk.  Have you had enough time to think about what I asked? Yes.  And? You're right. There was another person involved in the escape plan.  Who? It's a guy who's disguised like a prison guard. Only he's not a prison guard. He's the mastermind. He came up with the plan. How did you know I was here? Because I know you so well. But, how- The warden's my uncle, you idiot. The truth is, I guess I don't know you. All I get is a letter? You could have least looked me in the eye when you ripped out my heart. I didn't mean to - You didn't mean to? "Dear Mai, I'm sorry you that you have to find out this way, but I'm leaving." Stop! This isn't about you. This is about the Fire Nation!  Thanks Zuko, that makes me feel all better.   Mai, I never wanted to hurt you. But I have to do this to save my country. Save it? You're betraying your country! That's not how I see it. Sokka, what's going on?  I don't have much time. If I'm seen with you the guards might think something's up. I just talked to my dad. That's great. Yeah, and we're escaping today, on the gondola. What? My dad and I came up with the plan together. We're gonna commandeer the gondola and we're gonna take a hostage with us so they won't cut the lines.  We'll never make it onto the gondola. There's too many guards. My dad already thought of that. He said we'll need a distraction. That's why we're gonna start a prison riot. Okay, let's say by some miracle this all works and we make it on the gondola. The warden will still just cut the lines, even if we have a captive. Not if the warden is the captive. I have to go. I'll find you before we start the riot.  Hey, you, the warden wants to see you! Why? I don't know, I didn't ask. Maybe I could schedule another time with him? How's tomorrow?  He wants to see you ... now.  Put him in the line-up. One of you is an impostor who thought he could fool me. But now, that person is going to be in a lot of trouble. Who is it?  That's him, warden. He's the impostor!  What?  I am not! He's lying! He's a liar! I'm telling you ... it wasn't me! Save your breath! I know you were working together. You threw Chit Sang in the very cooler they used to escape. It was all part of your plan. That was just a coincidence! Sir, there's someone to see you.  Who told you to interrupt me? I did.  Princess Azula. Ah ... It is an honor to welcome you to the Fire Nation's most exemplary prison. I didn't realize you were coming.  Who is this?  He's a guard who was involved in a recent and feeble escape attempt.  It wasn't me!  Quiet, you!  You're wasting your time. That's not one of them.  How do you know?  Because I'm a people person.  Hey, I just got orders. Let the prisoners out into the yard. But we're in the middle of a lockdown. Oh, okay, I'll just go tell the warden you said that. I'm sure he'll be glad to hear about you undermining his authority. What's your name again?  Wait! Don't tell the warden. I'm just a little confused. Hey, I'm confused too, but the warden's in a bad mood, and ... irrational, so if you ask me, it's best not to question it, and just do what he says.  Yeah ... you're right. We're letting them out! This is it! We have to start a riot. Okay. But how do we do that?   I'll show you.  Hey! What'd you do that for? That hurt my feelings. Aren't you mad at me? Uh, well, normally I would be, but I've been learning to control my anger. This isn't working. Hey you! You're lucky I didn't rat you out, but my generosity comes with a price. I know you're planning another escape attempt, and I want in.  Actually, we're trying to escape right now, but we need a riot. You wouldn't happen to know how to start one, would you? A prison riot? Please. Hey! Riot!   Impressive. Forget about controlling my anger ... let's riot!  Who let these prisoners into the yard? This is supposed to be a lockdown! Ma'am, there's a riot going on! I'm here to protect you! I don't need any protection.  Believe me, she doesn't. I'm sorry, but I'm under direct orders from your uncle to make sure nothing happens.  Get off of me!  Zuko! Good, we're all here. Now all we need to do is grab the warden, and get to the gondolas! And how do we do that? I'm not sure.  I thought you thought this through! I thought you told me it's okay not to think everything through! Maybe not everything, but this is kind of important!  Hey, uh, fellas. I think your girlfriend's taking care of it. You wouldn't dare.  Sorry, warden. You're my prisoner now. We've got the warden! Now let's get out of here! That's some girl.  Tell me about it. We're almost there! Back off! We've got the warden! Let's go! Everyone in! What are you doing? I'm making it so they can't stop us. Way to think ahead. We're on our way! Wait! Who's that? That's a problem. It's my sister and her friend.  This is a rematch I've been waiting for. Me too. There's the warden! I see him!  Cut the line!  He wants us to cut the line. But if we cut the line, there's no way he'll survive!  He knows that. They're about to cut the line!  Then it's time to leave. Goodbye, Zuko.  They're cutting the line! The gondola's about to go! I hope this thing floats. What are you doing? Saving the jerk who dumped me. Who's that?  It's Mai!  What is she doing? Sorry, warden. Your record is officially .  Well, we made it out. Now what? Zuko, what are you doing? My sister was on that island. Yeah, and she's probably right behind us, so let's not stop! What I mean is she must have come here somehow. There! That's our way out of here! Leave us alone. I never expected this from you. The thing I don't understand is "Why?". Why would you do it? You know the consequences. I guess you just don't know people as well as you think you do. You miscalculated. I love Zuko more than I fear you.  No, you miscalculated! You should have feared me more!  Come on! Let's get out of here!  You're both fools! What shall we do with them, princess? Put them somewhere I'll never have to see their faces again, and let them rot! What are you doing in this thing? What happened to the war balloon? It kind of got destroyed. Sounds like a crazy fishing trip. Did you at least get some good meat? I did. The best meat of all. The meat of friendship and fatherhood.  I'm new. What's up, everybody?  Dad?  Hi, Katara.  How are you here? What is going on? Where did you go? We kind of went to a Fire Nation prison. Seriously? You guys didn't find any meat? Water. Earth. Fire. Air. My grandmother used to tell me stories about the old days: a time of peace when the Avatar kept balance between the Water Tribes, Earth Kingdom, Fire Nation and Air Nomads. But that all changed when the Fire Nation attacked. Only the Avatar mastered all four elements; only he could stop the ruthless firebenders. But when the world needed him most, he vanished. A hundred years have passed, and the Fire Nation is nearing victory in the war. Two years ago, my father and the men of my tribe journeyed to the Earth Kingdom to help fight against the Fire Nation, leaving me and my brother to look after our tribe. Some people believe that the Avatar was never reborn into the Air Nomads and that the cycle is broken, but I haven't lost hope. I still believe that, somehow, the Avatar will return to save the world. It's not getting away from me this time. Watch and learn, Katara. This is how you catch a fish.  Sokka, look!  Sshh! Katara, you're going to scare it away. Mmmm ... I can already smell it cookin'.  But, Sokka! I caught one!  Hey! Why is it that every time you play with magic water, I get soaked?  It's not "magic", it's waterbending! And it's ...  Yeah, yeah, "an ancient art unique to our culture", blah, blah, blah. Look, I'm just saying that if I had weird powers, I'd keep my weirdness to myself.  You're calling me weird? I'm not the one who makes muscles at myself every time I see my reflection in the water! Watch out! Go left! Go left!  You call that  You don't like my steering? Well, maybe you should've waterbended us out of the ice.  So it's my fault?  I knew I should've left you home! Leave it to a girl to screw things up! You are the most sexist, immature, nut brained ... I'm embarrassed to be related to you! Ever since mom died,  been off playing soldier!  Uh ... Katara ...  I even wash all the clothes! Have you ever smelled your dirty socks? Let me tell you,   Katara, settle down! No that's it! I'm  Okay, you've gone from "weird" to "freakish", Katara.  You mean did that?  Yep. Congratulations. He's alive! We have to help! Katara, get back here! We don't know what that thing is! Finally! Uncle, do you realize what this means?!  I won't get to finish my game?  It means my search is about to come to an end.  That light came from an incredibly powerful source! It has to be him!  Or it's just the celestial lights. We've been down this road before, Prince Zuko. I don't want you to get too excited over nothing. Please, sit. Why don't you enjoy a cup of calming Jasmine tea?  I don't need any calming tea! I need to capture the Avatar! Helmsman, head a course for the light!  Stop!  Stop it!  I need to ask you something ... What? Please ... come closer.  What is it?  Will you go penguin sledding with me?  Uh, sure ... I-I guess.  What's going on here?  You tell us! How did you get in the ice? And why aren't you frozen?   I'm not sure.  Appa! Are you all right? Wake up, buddy.  Ha, ha! You're okay! What is that thing? This is Appa, my flying bison.  Right, and this is Katara, my flying sister.   Don't worry, it'll wash out. So do you guys live around here?   answer that! Did you see that crazy bolt of light?! He was probably trying to signal the Fire Navy!  Oh yeah, I'm sure he's a spy for the Fire Navy. You can tell by that evil look in his eye. The paranoid one is my brother, Sokka. You never told us your name. I'm A ... a-a-a-Achoo! I'm Aang.   You just sneezed ... and flew ten feet in the air!  Really? It felt higher than that.  You're an airbender! Sure am! Giant light beams, flying bison, airbenders ... I think I got midnight sun madness. I'm going home to where stuff makes sense.  Well, if you guys are stuck, Appa and I can give you a lift.  We'd love a ride! Thanks!  Oh no! I'm not getting on that fluffy snot monster!  Are you hoping some other kind of monster will come along and give you a ride home? You know, before you freeze to death? Okay, first time flyers, hold on tight! Appa, yip-yip! Come on, Appa. Yip-yip!  Wow, that was truly amazing ...  Appa's just a little tired. A little rest and he'll be soaring through the sky. You'll see.   Why are you smiling at me like that? Oh, I was smiling?  I'm going to bed now. Yep, a man needs his rest. Prince Zuko, you need some sleep. Even if you're right, and the Avatar is alive, you won't find him. Your father, grandfather and great-grandfather all tried and failed. Because their honor didn't hinge on the Avatar's capture. Mine does. This coward's hundred years in hiding are over. Hey. Hey. What'cha thinkin' about? I guess I was wondering, your being an airbender and all, if you had any idea what happened to the Avatar? Oh, no. I didn't know him. I mean, I knew people that knew him, but I didn't. Sorry.  Okay. Just curious. Good night. Sleep tight. Aang? Aang! Wake up. It's okay, we're in the village now! Come on, get ready. Everyone's waiting to meet you. Aang, this is the entire village. Entire village, Aang.  Uh, why are they all looking at me like that? Did Appa sneeze on me? Well, no one has seen an airbender in a hundred years. We thought they were extinct, until my granddaughter and grandson found you.  Extinct?  Aang, this is my grandmother.  Call me Gran-Gran.  What is this, a weapon? You can't stab anything with this!  It's not for stabbing! It's for airbending.   Magic trick! Do it again! Not magic, airbending. It lets me control the air currents around my glider and fly.  Ya know, last time I checked, humans   Check again!  He's flying! It's amazing!  My watchtower!  That was   Great. You're an airbender, Katara's a waterbender. Together you can just waste time all day long.   You're a waterbender?  Well, sort of. Not yet. All right, no more playing. Come on, Katara, you have chores.  I told you, he's the real thing Gran-Gran! I finally found a bender to teach me!  Katara, try not to put all your hopes in this boy. But he's special! I can tell! I sense he's filled with much wisdom.  See? Now my tongue is stuck to my staff!  Again.  No! Power in firebending comes from the breath , not the muscles. The breath becomes energy in the body. The energy extends past your limbs and becomes: fire! Get it right this time.  Enough! I've been drilling this sequence all day. Teach me the next set! I'm more than ready! No, you are impatient. You have yet to master your basics. Drill it again!  The sages tell us that the Avatar is the last airbender. He must be over a hundred years old by now. He's had a century to master the four elements! I'll need more than basic firebending to defeat him. You will teach me the advanced set!  Very well, but first, I must finish my roast duck.   Now men, it's important that you show no fear when you face a firebender. In the Water Tribe, we fight to the last man standing! For without courage, how can we call ourselves men?   I gotta pee!  Listen! Until your fathers return from the War, they're counting on you to be the men of this tribe, and that means no potty breaks!  But I really gotta go!  Okay, who else has to go?  Have you seen Aang? Gran-Gran said he disappeared over ago.  Wow! Everything freezes in there!  Uh! Katara, get him out of here! This lesson is for warriors only! Whee!  Stop! Stop it right now! What's wrong with you?! We don't have time for fun and games with going on!  What war? What are you talking about?  You're kidding, right?  Penguin! He's kidding, right? Aang?  Hey, come on little guy. Wanna go sledding? Heh heh. I have a way with animals.  Hehehe, Aang, I'll help you catch a penguin if you teach me waterbending.  You got a deal! Just one little problem ... I'm an airbender, not a waterbender. Isn't there someone in your tribe who can teach you?  No. You're looking at the only waterbender in the whole South Pole. This isn't right. A waterbender needs to master water. What about the North Pole? There's another Water Tribe up there, right? Maybe they have waterbenders who could teach you. Maybe, but we haven't had contact with our sister tribe in a long time. It's not exactly "turn right at the second glacier". It's on the other side of . But you forget, I have a flying bison. Appa and I can personally fly you to the North Pole. Katara, we're going to find you a master!  That's ... I mean, I don't know. I've never left home before. Well, you think about it, but in the meantime, can you teach me catch one of these penguins?  Okay, listen closely my young pupil. Catching penguins is an ancient and sacred art. Observe! Hi hi hi! Ha, ha, ha!  I haven't done this since I was a kid! You still are a kid!  Whoa! What is   A Fire Navy ship. And a very bad memory for my people. Aang, stop! We're not allowed to go near it! The ship could be booby-trapped! If you want to be a bender, you have to let go of fear.  This ship has haunted my tribe since Gran-Gran was a little girl. It was part of the Fire Nation's first attacks. Okay, back up. I have friends all over the world, even in the Fire Nation. I've never seen any war. Aang, how long were you in that iceberg?  I don't know. A few days, maybe? I think it was more like a hundred   What?! That's impossible! Do I look like a hundred-twelve-year-old man to you? Think about it. The War is a century old. You don't know about it because, somehow, you were in there the whole time! It's the only explanation. A hundred years! I can't believe it.  I'm sorry, Aang. Maybe somehow there's a bright side to all this ...  I did get to meet you.  Come on, let's get out of here. Aang, let's head back, this place is creepy. Huh? What's that you said about booby traps? Uh oh ... Hold on tight! Aaah! The last airbender! Quite agile for his old age. Wake my uncle! Tell him I found the Avatar. As well as his hiding place ...  You guys are going to be done soon, right? We have a lot of ground to cover if we're going to make it to Omashu today.  What? Like you're ready to go right now, naked guy?  I could be ready in two minutes. Seriously, whenever. So you were showing me the octopus form?  Right, let me see your stance.  Your arms are too far apart. See, if you move them closer together, you protect your center. You got it?  Oh, yea ... thanks.  Okay, let's see what you got.  You make a fine octopus, Pupil Aang.  Da, da, da. Don't fall in love with the traveling girl. She'll leave you broke and brokenhearted. Hey, river people! We're not river people.  You're not? Well then what kind of people are you? Just ... people. Aren't we all, brother?  Who are you? I'm Chong and this is my wife, Lily. We're nomads, happy to go wherever the wind takes us!   You guys are nomads? That's great! I'm a nomad!  Hey, me too!  I know ... you just said that. Oh. Nice underwear ...  I didn't find anything to eat! I can't live like this! I wasn't meant to be a fugitive. This is impossible! Uncle, what are you doing?  You're looking at the rare white dragon bush. Its leaves make a tea so delicious, it's heartbreaking. That, or it's the white jade, which is poisonous. We need food, not tea. I'm going fishing.   Hmm ... delectable tea? Or deadly poison?  Hey, Sokka, you should hear some of these stories. These guys have been everywhere!  Well not everywhere, Little Arrowhead. But where we haven't been, we've heard about through stories and songs. They said they'll take us to see a giant night crawler!  On the way, there's a waterfall that creates a never-ending rainbow! Look, I hate to be the wet blanket here, but since Katara is busy, I guess it's up to me. We need to get to Omashu. No sidetracks, no worms and definitely no rainbows. Wow, sounds like someone has a case of destination fever. You're worried too much about where you're going. You got to focus less on the "where" and more on the "going".   O. Ma. Shu! Sokka's right. We need to find King Bumi, so Aang can learn earthbending somewhere safe. Sounds like you're headed to Omashu. There's an old story about a secret pass right through the mountains. Is this real or a legend? Oh, it's a real legend. And it's as old as earthbending itself. Two lovers, forbidden from one another, the war divides their people and the mountain divides them apart! Built a path to be together! Yeah, I forget the next couple of lines, but then it goes ... Secret tunnel! Secret tunnel! Through the mountains, secret, secret, secret, secret tunnel! Yeah!  I think we'll just stick with flying. We've dealt with the Fire Nation before. We'll be fine. Yeah, thanks for the help, but Appa hates going underground. And we need to do whatever makes Appa most comfortable ...  Launch! Ahhhh!  Secret love cave, let's go. Zuko, remember that plant I thought might be tea?  You didn't ... I did ... and it wasn't.   Ahh!  When the rash spreads to my throat, I will stop breathing. But look what I found. These are bacui berries, known to cure the poison of the white jade. That, or maka'ole berries that cause blindness.  We're not taking any more chances with these plants! We need to get help. But where are we going to go? We're enemies of the Earth Kingdom and fugitives from the Fire Nation.  If the Earth Kingdom discovers us, they'll have us killed.  But if the Fire Nation discovers us, we'll be turned over to Azula.  Earth Kingdom it is. How far are we from the tunnel? Actually, it's not just one tunnel. The lovers didn't want anyone to find out about their love, so they built a whole labyrinth!  Labyrinth?  Oh, I'm sure we'll figure it out. All you need to do is trust in love ... according to the curse.  Curse! Hey-hey! We're here!  What exactly is this curse? The curse says that only those who trust in love can make it through the caves. Otherwise, you'll be trapped in them forever. And die. Oh yeah, and die. Hey, I just remembered the rest of that song! And die! That's it! There's no way we're going through some cursed hole!  Hey, someone's making a big campfire!  That's no campfire, Moku.  It's Fire Nation. They're tracking us.  So all you need to do is trust in love to get through these caves? That is correct, Master Arrowhead.  We can make it.  Everyone into the hole! Hold on! It's too dangerous. Haven't you heard the song? Just close them in. The mountain will take care of the rest. It's okay, Appa. We'll be fine. I hope. We will be fine. All we need is a plan. Chong, how long do those torches last?  Uh, about two hours each.  And we have five torches, so that's ten hours!  It doesn't work like that if they're all lit at the same time! Oh, right. I'm going to make a map to keep track of exactly where we've been. Then we should be able to solve it like a maze and get through.  You two must not be from around here. We know better than to touch the White Jade, much less make it into tea and drink it.   Whoops! So where are you traveling from?  Yes, we're travelers. Do you have names? Names? Of course we have names. I'm, uh ... Lee and this is my Uncle, uh ... Mushi?  Yes, my nephew was named after his father, so we just call him Junior.  Mushi and Junior, huh. My name is Song. You two look like you could use a good meal. Why don't you stay for dinner?  Sorry, but we need to be moving on.  That's too bad. My mom always makes too much roast duck.  Where do you live exactly? Sokka, this is the tenth dead end you've led us to. This doesn't make sense. We already came through this way. We don't need a map. We just need love. The little guy knows it. Yeah, but I wouldn't mind a map also.  There's something strange here. There's only one explanation. The tunnels are changing.  My daughter tells me you're refugees. We were once refugees ourselves.  When I was a little girl, the Fire Nation raided our farming village. All the men were taken away. That was the last time I saw my father.  I haven't seen my father in many years.  Oh, is he fighting in the War?  Yeah.   The tunnels, they're a-changin'. It must be the curse! I knew we shouldn't have come down here!  Right, if only we listened to you.  Everyone be quiet. Listen. It's a giant flying thing with teeth!  No! It's a wolfbat! Yeah, it's no use. We're separated. But at least you have us!  Nooooo! Can I join you? I know what you've been through. We've all been through it. The Fire Nation has hurt you.  It's okay. They've hurt me, too.   Oh, don't let the cave-in get you down! Don't let the falling rocks turn your smile into a frown! When the tunnels are darkest, that's when you need a clown, hey! Don't let the cave-in get you down, Sokka!  Aang, look!  We found the exit! This isn't the exit.  No. It's a tomb. It must be the two lovers from the legend; that's who's buried here. These pictures tell their story.  They met on top of the mountain that divided their two villages ...  The villages were enemies, so they could not be together ... but their love was strong and they found a way.  The two lovers learned earthbending from the badgermoles; they became the first earthbenders.  They built elaborate tunnels, so they could meet secretly. Anyone who tried to follow them would be forever in the labyrinth. But, one day, the man didn't come - he'd died in the war between the two villages. Devastated, the woman unleashed a terrible display of her earthbending power - she could have destroyed them all ... but, instead, she declared the war over. Both villages helped her build a new city where they would live together in peace. The woman's name was Oma and the man's name was Shu. The great city was named Omashu as a monument to their love.  Love is brightest in the dark. Oh, great! Your plans have led us to another dead end!  At least I'm thinking of ideas and trying to get us out of here, Moku. Whoa, whoa, wait a minute. We're thinking of ? Because I've had an idea for, like, an hour now.  Yes! We're all thinking of ideas! Well, then listen to this: If love is the key out of here, then all we need to do is play a love song!  How are we going to find our way out of these tunnels? I have a crazy idea.  What?  Never mind. It's too crazy. Katara, what is it? I was thinking ... the curse says we'll be trapped in here forever unless we trust in love ... Right ...  And here, it says, "Love is brightest in the dark," and has a picture of them kissing.  Where are you going with this?  Well, what if we ... kissed?  Us ... ? See? It was a crazy idea.  Us ... kissing ...  Us kissing. What was I thinking? Can you imagine ?  Yeah. I definitely wouldn't want to kiss you!   Oh, well! I didn't realize it was such a horrible option. Sorry I suggested it!  No, no, I mean ... if there was a choice between kissing you and dying ...  Ugh!  What? I'm saying is I would rather kiss you than die - that's a compliment.  Well, I'm not sure which I'd rather do!   What is wrong with me ...  Even if you're lost, you can't lose the love because it's in your heart ... Thank you for the duck. It was excellent. You're welcome. It brings me pleasure to see someone eat my cooking with such ... gusto.  Much practice. Junior, where are your manners? You need to thank these nice people.  Thank you. I know you don't think there's any hope left in the world, but there is hope. The Avatar has returned.  I know. What are you doing? These people just showed you great kindness. They're about to show us a little more kindness. Well? We're going to run out of light any second now, aren't we? I think so ... Then, what are we going to do? What can we do? Hey! You saved us, Sokka! No, they were trying to get away from something! From what? Hey, those things are music lovers!  Badgermoles coming toward me. Come on guys, help me out!  The big, bad badgermoles who earthbend the tunnels, hate the wolfbats, but love the sounds! They're made of some kind of crystal. They must only light up in the dark. That's how the two lovers found each other. They just put out their lights and followed the crystals. That must be the way out!  So, uh ... Let's go! What about Sokka? Sokka! How did you guys get out? Just like the legend said, we let love lead the way.  Really? We let huge, ferocious beasts lead our way. Why is your forehead all red?  Nobody react to what I'm about to tell you: I think that kid might be the Avatar! So are you guys going to come to Omashu with us? Nope. Okay. Thanks for everything, Moku. Sokka, I hope you learned a little something about not letting the plans get in the way of the journey.   Just play your songs. Hey! Good plan! Even if you're lost, you can't lose the love because it's in your heart. Da, da, da ...  The journey was long and annoying, but now you get to see what it's really about: the destination. I present to you the Earth Kingdom city of O- Oh no ... Hey! You guys picked a great campsite. The grass is so soft. That's not grass.   Appa's shedding.  Oh, gross!  That's not gross, it's just a part of spring! You know, rebirth, flowers blooming and Appa gets a new coat.  Ah, the beauty of spring.  Stop! Appa, stop! Ugh!   It's not that bad, Katara. It makes a great wig!  And a great beard!   I'm just glad we finally have another girl in the group, because you two are disgusting.  Excuse me, does anyone have a razor? Because I've got some hairy pits! So Toph, usually when setting up camp, we try to divide up the work.  Hey, don't worry about me. I'm good to go. Well, actually what I'm trying to say is, some of us might fetch water, while someone else might set up the fire pit, or put up the tent. Even Momo does his fair share.  Katara, I'm fine. I can carry my own weight. I don't need a fire, I've already collected my own food and look, my tent's all set up.  Well, that's great for you, but we still need to finish -  I don't understand what's the problem here!  Never mind.  Sorry!  Hey Toph, I wanted to apologize for earlier. I think we're all just a little tired and getting on each other's nerves.  Yeah, you do seem pretty tired.  I meant all of us. Well, good night.  Good night. There's something coming toward us! What is it?  It feels like an avalanche, but also not an avalanche.  Your powers of perception are frightening. Should we leave? Better safe than sorry. What is that thing?  Ah, land sweet land! See you guys in the morning! Actually, can you help us unload?  Really? You need me to help unload Sokka's funky-smelling sleeping bag?  Well, yeah. That and everything else. You're a part of our team now, and -  Look! I didn't ask you to help unload my stuff! I'm carrying my own weight.  That's not the point. Ever since you joined us, you've been nothing but selfish and unhelpful!  What? Look here, sugar queen, I gave up everything I had so that I could teach Aang earthbending. So don't you talk to me about being selfish!   ?!  D-did you just slam the door in my face?! How can you be so infuriating?! Should we do something?  Hey, I'm just enjoying the show.  Okay, okay, you both need to calm down. "Both"?!    I ... can see that.   The stars sure are beautiful tonight. Too bad you can't see them, Toph!  Hey, how's a guy supposed to sleep with all this yelling and earthquaking?  That thing is back! Well, how far away is it? Maybe we can close our eyes just for a few minutes.  I don't think so, Sokka. Seriously, what is that thing? And how does it keep finding us?  I don't know. But this time, I'm going to make sure we lose it.  Okay, forget about setting up camp. I'm finding the softest pile of dirt and going to sleep.  That's good because Toph wasn't going to help anyway!  Oh, I didn't realize the baby still needed someone to tuck her in bed. Come on guys, there's something after us and we don't even know what or who it is. It could be Zuko. We haven't seem him since the North Pole. Who's Zuko?  Oh, just some angry freak with a ponytail who's tracked us all over the world.  What's wrong with ponytails, Ponytail?  This is a warrior's wolf tail.  Well, it certainly tells the other warriors that you're fun and perky.  Anyway, whoever's chasing us couldn't have followed us here, so, now would everyone just shhh?  No Momo, shhh. Sleepy time.  Oh, don't tell me ... That's impossible. There's no way they could have tracked us. I can feel it with my own two feet!  Let's get out of here.  Maybe we should face them. Find out who they are. Who knows, maybe they're friendly.  Always the optimist ...  It's those three girls from Omashu!  We can take them. Three on three. Actually Toph, there's four of us.  Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't count you. You know, no bending and all.  I can still fight!  Okay, three on three plus Sokka.  Errrgh! Well, we wanted to find out who they were and we found out. Now let's get out of here. Appa, yip yip!  I can't believe those girls followed us all the way from Omashu.  I still think we could have taken them. Are you kidding me? The crazy blue firebending and the flying daggers are bad enough, but last time we saw them, one of those girls did something that took my bending away. That's scary.  Oh no, the sun is rising. We've been up all night with no sleep!  Sokka, we'll be okay.  Are you sure? I've never not slept before! What if I fall asleep now and something happens? And something always happens! Every time we land, those girls are there. So we'll just have to keep flying. We can't keep flying forever.  So what's our plan?  Don't know ... too tired to think. I'm sure we'll come up with something after a short nap.   Yes ... sleep.  What's going on? Appa fell asleep!  Wake up, buddy! Appa's exhausted.  Okay, we've put in a lot of distance between us and them. The plan right now is to follow Appa's lead and get some sleep.  Of course, we could've gotten some sleep earlier, if Toph didn't have such issues.  What!?  All right, all right, everyone's exhausted! Let's just get some rest.  No, I want to hear what Katara has to say. You think I have issues?  I'm just saying. Maybe if you helped out earlier, we could have set up our camp faster and gotten some sleep and then maybe we wouldn't be in this situation! You're blaming me for this?  No! No, she's not blaming you.  No, I'm blaming her! Hey, I never asked you for diddly-doo-dah. I carry my own weight. Besides, if there's anyone to blame, it's Sheddy over here!  What? You're blaming Appa? Yeah, you want to know how they keep finding us? He's leaving a trail everywhere we go!  How dare you blame Appa! He saved your life three times today! If there's anyone to blame it's you! You're always talking about how you carry your own weight, but you're not. He is! Appa's carrying your weight. He never had a problem flying when it was just the three of us!  I'm out of here.  Wait! What did I just do? I can't believe I yelled at my earthbending teacher. Now she's gone.  I know. We're all just trying to get used to each other. And I was so mean to her.  Yeah, you two were pretty much jerks.  Thanks, Sokka. No problem. We need to find Toph and apologize. Okay, but what are we going to do about the tank full of dangerous ladies chasing us?  I have a plan. Toph was right. The fur was leaving a trail right to us. But now that he's clean, no more trail. Are you sure he's okay to fly? He'll be fine as long as we leave his saddle and all our stuff here. I'm going to use Appa's fur to make a fake trail to lead the tank off-course. Ow ... That really hurt my tailbone.  Wads of wet fur. How delightful.  Hmmm ... they're not wads, they're more like bundles, or bunches? It's got an "uh" sound.  Clumps?  Clumps! They're clumps!   The trail goes this way. The Avatar's trying to give us the slip. You two head in that direction and keep your eye out for the bison. I'll follow this trail.  Toph couldn't have made it too far. What is it, Momo? Ooooh, no! Katara!  How did they find us?  Appa, come on, we need to go faster! He's too tired!  Not good, not good! We just need to make it across that river!  Come on Appa, just a little further ...  We made it! We're safe.  You did it Appa!  Good try, but no. How are you doing?  Well, you know ...  I thought when Ty Lee and I finally caught you guys, it would be more exciting. Oh well, victory is boring.  Thanks Appa, I don't know what we'd do without you.  Was it just me, or was that guy kind of cute? All right, you've caught up with me. Now, who are you and what do you want?  You mean you haven't guessed? You don't see the family resemblance? Here's a hint. I must find the Avatar to restore my honor! It's okay, you can laugh. It's funny. So what now?  Now? Now, it's over. You're tired and you have no place to go. You can run, but I'll catch you.  I'm not running.  Here is your tea. You seem a little too young to be traveling alone.  You seem a little too old.  Perhaps I am.  I know what you're thinking ... I look like I can't handle being by myself. I wasn't thinking that. You wouldn't even let me pour my own cup of tea! I poured your tea because I wanted to and for no other reason. People see me and think I'm weak. They want to take care of me, but I can take care of myself, by myself. You sound like my nephew, always thinking you need to do things on your own, without anyone's support. There is nothing wrong with letting the people who love you help you. Not that I love you, I just met you.  So where is your nephew? I've been tracking him actually. Is he lost?  Yes, a little bit. His life has recently changed and he's going through very difficult times. He's trying to figure out who he is and he went away. So now you're following him. I know he doesn't want me around him right now, but if he needs me, I'll be there. Your nephew is very lucky, even if he doesn't know it. Thank you. My pleasure. Sharing tea with a fascinating stranger is one of life's true delights.  No, thank you for what you said. It helped me. I'm glad.  Oh, and about your nephew, maybe you should tell him that you need him, too. Do you really want to fight me? Yes, I really do.  Zuko!  I was wondering when you'd show up, Zuzu.  "Zuzu"?  Back off, Azula! He's mine!  I'm not going anywhere.  Katara!  Uncle ... Get up! I thought you guys could use a little help.  Thanks.  Well, look at this. Enemies and traitors, all working together. I'm done. I know when I'm beaten. You got me. A princess surrenders with honor.  Aaaah!  Ugggh! Get away from us! Zuko, I can help.  Leave! So, what kind of trouble is Katara in? I don't know. In my vision, I just knew she needed help. It would be nice if your Avatar powers could be just a little more specific from time to time. What is that? Need a ride?  The Earth King and the Council of Five do not trust the Dai Li. They imprisoned your leader, Long Feng. Soon they will turn on all of you and eliminate you. Seizing power today is a matter of life and death. This coup must be swift and decisive. The Earth King and each of the five generals must be taken out simultaneously. Long Feng has placed you in my command while we overthrow the government. If I sense any disloyalty, any hesitation, any weakness at all, I will snuff it out. That is all. Nice speech, Azula. It was pretty and poetic, but also scary in a good way.   Yeah. I thought you were going to make that one guy pee his pants. There are still a few loose ends. The Avatar, and my brother and uncle. Many times I imagined myself here, at the threshold of the palace. But I always thought I would be here as a conqueror. Instead, we are the Earth King's personal guests, here to serve him tea. Destiny is a funny thing. It sure is, Uncle. So how did it go with the guru? Did you master the Avatar State? Uh ... If you leave now, you won't be able to go into the Avatar State at all! Aang, are you okay? I'm great! It went great with the guru. I completely mastered the Avatar State. Yeah. What's taking so long? Maybe the Earth King overslept. Something's not right. It's tea time!  Azula! Have you met the Dai Li? They're earthbenders, but they have a killer instinct that's so firebender. I just love it. Did I ever tell you how I got the nickname "The Dragon of the West"? I'm not interested in a lengthy anecdote, Uncle. ] It's more of a demonstration, really. Come on! You'll be fine! No! I'm tired of running! It's time I faced Azula! You're so dramatic. What? Are you going to challenge me to an Agni Kai? Yes! I challenge you! No thanks. Katara's fine. You have nothing to worry about. But, in my vision, I felt so sure she was in trouble. Well, she met with the Council of Generals to plan the invasion, and since then, she been off with your friends, the Kyoshi Warriors. See, Aang? She's with Suki. They're probably back at our apartment right now talking about make-up or something. Okay. Maybe you're right. Believe me, if there was any danger at all, Bosco's animal instincts would sense it. You've got company. Zuko! Momo! There's no one else here. Katara is in trouble! I knew it! Oh, no! Wait! Someone's at the door. [ Actually, I know who it is. It's an old friend of mine. Glad to see you're okay. I need your help. You guys know each other? I met him in the woods once and knocked him down.  Then he gave me some tea and some very good advice. May I come in? Princess Azula is here in Ba Sing Se. She must have Katara. She has captured my nephew as well. Then we'll work together to fight Azula, and save Katara and Zuko.  Whoa there! You lost me at "Zuko". I know how you must feel about my nephew. But believe me when I tell you that there is good inside him.  "Good inside him" isn't enough! Why don't you come back when it's outside him too, okay? Katara's in trouble. All of Ba Sing Se is in trouble. Working together is our best chance. I brought someone along who might help us. Azula and Long Feng are plotting a coup! They're going to overthrow the Earth King! My sister! Where are they keeping Katara? In the Crystal Catacombs of Old Ba Sing Se, deep beneath the palace. The movements of the Earth King and all the generals have been plotted out step-by-step. Good. And the Fire Nation princess is cooperating? Oh, yes. More than cooperating. She's really taken charge. She's terrifying and inspirational at the same time. It's hard to explain. Why did they throw you in here? Oh, wait, let me guess. It's a trap. So that when Aang shows up to help me, you can finally have him in your little Fire Nation clutches!  You're a terrible person! You know that? Always following us! Hunting the Avatar! Trying to capture the world's last hope for peace! But what do you care? You're the Fire Lord's son. Spreading war and violence and hatred is in your blood!  You don't know what you're talking about!  I don't? How dare you! You have no idea what this war has put me through! Me personally! The Fire Nation took my mother away from me.  I'm sorry. That's something we have in common. Well, what'd you know? There is an ancient city down there. But it's deep. We should split up. Aang, you go with Iroh to look for Katara and the angry jerk, no offense.  None taken. And I'll go with Toph to warn the Earth King of Azula's coup. So, Toph thinks you give pretty good advice, and great tea! The key to both is proper aging. What's on your mind? Well, I met with this guru who was supposed to help me master the Avatar State and control this great power, but to do it, I had to let go of someone I love. And I just couldn't. Perfection and power are overrated. I think you were very wise to choose happiness and love.  What happens if we can't save anyone and beat Azula? Without the Avatar State, what if I'm not powerful enough? I don't know the answer. Sometimes, life is like this dark tunnel. You can't always see the light at the end of the tunnel, but if you just keep moving, you will come to a better place. There's General How! What's going on here?! You're under house arrest. The coup is happening right now! We've gotta warn the Earth King! Thank goodness we're in time! In time for what? Yeah. What are you in time for, cutie?  Uh, I'm kinda involved with Suki. Who? They're not the real Kyoshi Warriors!  Sorry to disappoint you. Oooh, it's like we're dancing together!  This fight is over. Get them all out of my sight. Now comes the part where I double cross you. Dai Li, arrest the Fire Nation princess! I said arrest her!  What is wrong with you?! It's because they haven't made up their minds.  They're waiting to see how this is going to end. What are you talking about? I can see your whole history in your eyes. You were born with nothing, so you've had to struggle, and connive, and claw your way to power. But true power, the divine right to rule, is something you're born with. The fact is, they don't know which one of us is going to be sitting on that throne, and which one is going to be bowing down. But I know, and you know. Well?  .] You've beaten me at my own game. Don't flatter yourself! You were never even a player. [ I'm sorry I yelled at you before. It doesn't matter. It's just that for so long now, whenever I would imagine the face of the enemy, it was your face. My face? I see.  No, no, that's-that's not what I mean.  It's okay. I used to think this scar marked me. The mark of the banished prince, cursed to chase the Avatar forever. But lately, I've realized I'm free to determine my own destiny, even if I'll never be free of my mark. Maybe you could be free of it. What? I have healing abilities. It's a scar, it can't be healed.  This is water from the Spirit Oasis at the North Pole. It has special properties, so I've been saving it for something important. I don't know if it would work, but ... Aang! Aang, I knew you would come.  Uncle, I don't understand. What are you doing with the Avatar?  Saving you, that's what. Zuko, it's time we talked. Go help you other friends. We'll catch up with you.   Why, Uncle? You're not the man you used to be, Zuko. You are stronger and wiser and freer than you have ever been. And now you have come to the crossroads of your destiny. It's time for you to choose. It's time for you to choose good. I expected this kind of treachery from Uncle. But Zuko, Prince Zuko, you're a lot of things, but you're not a traitor, are you? Release him immediately. It's not too late for you, Zuko. You can still redeem yourself.  The kind of redemption she offers is not for you. Why don't you let him decide, Uncle? I need you, Zuko. I've plotted every move of this day, this glorious day in Fire Nation history, and the only way we win is together. At the end of this day, you will have your honor back. You will have Father's love. You will have everything you want. Zuko, I am begging you.  Look into your heart and see what it is that you truly want.  You are free to choose. We've got to find Sokka and Toph. See any Dai Li agents nearby? Nope, all clear. Let's go.   I'm not leaving without Bosco! I thought you had changed!  I have changed.  Come on, it's easy. You just walk on your front paws instead of your rear ones. Like this.  That is a nice trick.  Just take the bear.  Bosco!  There's too many.   The only way is to let her go. I'm sorry, Katara. You've got to get out of here! I'll hold them off as long as I can!  We've done it, Zuko. It's taken a hundred years, but the Fire Nation has conquered Ba Sing Se. I betrayed Uncle. No, he betrayed you. Zuko, when you return home, Father will welcome you as a war hero. But I don't have the Avatar. What if Father doesn't restore my honor? He doesn't need to, Zuko. Today, you restored your own honor. The Earth Kingdom ... has fallen.  Top of the morning, Momo!  Sounds like you slept well.  Like a baby moose lion. I'm ready to face the Fire Lord. So, what's your strategy for taking him down? Gonna get your glow on and hit him with a little Avatar State action?  I can't. When Azula shot me with lightning, my seventh chakra was locked, cutting off my connection to all the cosmic energy in the universe.  You know what I just heard? Blah, blah, spiritual mumbo jumbo blah, blah, something about space.   Oh, no. Sokka, do you think the fog will delay the invasion?  No. That is the invasion! You made it, Dad!   Were you able to locate everyone I told you to find? I did. But I'm a little worried, Sokka. Some of these men aren't exactly the "warrior type".   Oooh-whee! This place ain't nothing like a swamp. What you reckon that is, Tho? Some sort of Fire Nation exploding trap what eat ya?  It's just a rock, Due.  Well, I'll be.  Is it just me, or are those fellas a little loose in the leaf-hat?  I just wish they would wear pants.  Pants are an illusion, and so is death.  Hi, Katara.   Haru! It's so good to see you!  Toph, this is Haru. When we met him, his town was controlled by the Fire Nation. So he had to hide his earthbending.  Katara inspired me and my father to take back our village.   You helped us find our courage, Katara. Now we're here to help you. No way! Is that- Hippo happy to see Blind Bandit!  You guys here for a rematch? Negatory. The Boulder and The Hippo no longer fight for others' entertainment. Now, we fight for our kingdom!  Sweet. Was that a new invention?  Yes, but unfortunately the incendiary capabilities of peanut sauce prove to be a failure.  You're making peanut sauce bombs? They're destructive. And delicious.  Where you able to complete work on the plans I send you? Yes, I was, and I think the Fire Nation will be quite surprised. Aang, my dad and I made this for you. A new glider! This is amazing! And as a special feature, I added the snack compartment.  Oh ... well, I'm sure that will come in handy. I bet you're tired of being in this cell old man. Well too bad. You're never stepping outside these walls again.  Breakfast.  Careful, Ming, don't get too close. His stench will knock you right out.   I snuck in some white jade tea. I know you like rare teas.  Thank you, Ming. Ever since I was put in here, you have been very kind to me. Don't worry, you'll do great. Good morning everyone. Ahh! Umm ... so, as you know, today, we're invading the Fire Nation! I mean I know you know that because otherwise why else would you be here? Uh anyway, the Fire Lord's palace is here . Uh nope, uh wait, uh wait, uh wait, it's here, and uh, there's an eclipse today and Aang's gonna fight the Fire Lord and the firebenders won't have any fire to use so that's good for us! And ... um ... I'm sorry let me start at the beginning . Katara and I discovered Aang frozen in an iceberg, now I didn't like Aang at first but grew to love him over time, then we went to the Southern Air Temple where Aang used to live and then we met Suki, who's a Kyoshi warrior. She dressed me like a woman and then she kissed me, and then Aang's friend was a crazy old king and ...  Wow, when he says the beginning he means the beginning beginning.  ... And then Katara got Haru arrested and then now he's grown a mustache which if you look at him in the front row you can see it ...  Thank you, Sokka. It's okay why don't you take a break? Let me just clarify a few points for everyone. Today, is the day of black sun, and I want to thank you all for your self-sacrifice, and your courage. There are two steps to the invasion, a naval stage, and then a land stage. To gain sea access to the Fire Nation capital, we need to get past our first major obstacle here, The Great Gates of Azulon. Next, we hit the land, and we hit hard. We must fight past their battlements and secure the plaza tower. Once we do that, it's up to the Royal Palace. At that point, the eclipse will begin. Excuse me. The Boulder is confused. Isn't the point to invade during the eclipse, when the firebenders are powerless? The eclipse only lasts eight minutes, not enough time for the whole invasion. And the Royal Palace is heavily guarded by firebenders. So that's where we'll need the eclipse's advantage the most. When this is finished, the Avatar will have defeated the Fire Lord. We will have control of the Fire Nation capital, and this war will be over! We've been looking everywhere for you. The boats are ready to leave. I messed up, Aang. What? The invasion plan was my moment of truth and I completely flubbed it. I just fell apart.  Sokka, that speech wasn't your moment of truth. That was just public speaking, and nobody's really good at that. My dad is! He explained the plan perfectly and inspired everyone, like a real leader should. Look, your moment of truth isn't gonna be in front of some map; it's gonna be out there on the battlefield. You seem so confident about everything, how do you know we're gonna win? Because I already failed the world once at Ba Sing Se. I won't let myself fail again. There they are, the Great Gates of Azulon. I don't see any gates. Katara, you and the swamp benders whip up a fog cover. We'll sneak by them statues just like we sneak by that Fire Navy blockade! Keep it up, we're almost through! Everyone below deck! Let's hope your invention works. No one's on board, sir. Where'd they go?  You've really outdone yourself this time, son.  Yeah, congratulations, Sokka. You managed to invent a worse way of travel than flying.   Helmet? Well, I just came up with the idea. The mechanist did all the work. Now don't sell yourself short, my boy. It was your idea to use waterbending to make the subs sink and float, brilliant! Though your original designs were a bit difficult to decipher. Unfortunately there is one problem I couldn't fix. The subs have a limited air supply. Before we land on the beaches, we'll need to resurface. Lunchtime, General Iroh. And this time, I brought you an extra bowl of rice. Thank you, Ming. Your little gestures of kindness have made my days in prison bearable. I think you should take the rest of the day off.  What? You don't look well. Maybe you should go home and rest. No, I feel fine.  Trust me. It is better that you are not here this afternoon.  So, this is it huh? Are you ready for the Fire Nation to know the Avatar is alive? I'm ready.  I hope you kick some serious Fire Lord butt, Twinkle Toes. Everyone listen up. The next time we resurface, it'll be on the beaches. So stay alert, and fight smart. Now break time's over, back in the subs.   Katara, I ...  Aang, I ... You go first. We've been through so many things together, and I've seen you grow up so much. You're not that little goofy kid I found in the iceberg anymore. I guess what I'm trying to say is, I'm really proud of you. Everything's gonna be different after today, isn't it. Yes, it is. What if ... what if I don't come back? Aang, don't say that, of course you'll-  Katara, what are you doing? It's time to submerge. What? Right, I'm on it.  I'm sorry Mai. What do you know? It did come in handy. Everyone in position. Earthbenders, into your tanks. This is gonna be a rough ride. Ready the torpedo. Launch! We're a man down. Where in tarnation is Huu?   Hey Huu! Where you been?  Communin' with nature. Takes a while to collect this much seaweed.  Dad, look out! Sokka, we've gotta take out those battlements! It's our only chance. I've got an idea. You two take out that battlement. I got this one. Watch each other's backs.  Dad? Dad!  I know I've made some bad choices, but today, I'm gonna set things right.  How does that feel, dad? Ah, a little, better. I need, to get back to the troops. Ahh! You're hurt, badly. You can't fight anymore. Everyone's counting on me to lead this mission Katara, I won't let them down. Ahh! Can't you heal him any faster? I'm doing everything I can.  I'll do it. No offense Sokka, but you're not exactly Mr. Healing Hands. No. I'll lead the invasion force. Don't be crazy Sokka. Maybe I am a little crazy, but the eclipse is about to start and we need to be up that volcano by the time it does. You can do this. I'm proud of you son. I still think you're crazy, but I'm proud of you too.  Yip yip. Listen up, everyone. I want the tanks in wedge formation. Warriors and benders in the middle. We're taking that tower, and heading for the royal palace. Charge!  That's strange. The Avatar is back! Hello? Anyone home? The Fire Nation is falling back! Sokka, we're on our way to victory! No. No, no, no! Fire Lord Ozai, where are you!?  How could you let them take Appa?! ‌ Why didn't you stop them‌?!  I couldn't! The library was sinking! You guys were still inside and-  You could've come to get us. I could've saved him!  I can hardly feel any vibrations out here. The sandbenders snuck up on me and there wasn't time for –  You just didn't care! You never liked Appa! You wanted him gone! Aang, stop it. You know Toph did all she could. She saved our lives. Who's going to save our lives now? We'll never make it out of here. That's all any of you guys care about, yourselves! You don't care whether Appa is okay or not! We're all concerned, but we can't afford to be fighting now.  I'm going after Appa. Aang, wait! We'd better start walking. We're the only people who know about the solar eclipse. We have to get that information to Ba Sing Se. You think if we dig out the giant owl, he'll give us a ride? Maybe we should make camp. No please, don't stop just for me!  What now? Colonel Mongke! What a pleasant surprise! If you're surprised we're here, then the Dragon of the West has lost a few steps.  You know these guys? Sure. Colonel Mongke and the Rough Rhinos are legendary. Each one is a different kind of weapon specialist. They are also a very capable singing group. We're not here to give a concert. We're here to apprehend fugitives!  Would you like some tea first? I'd love some. How about you, Kahchi? I make you as a jasmine man. Am I right? Enough stalling! Round 'em up! It's nice to see old friends. Too bad you don't have any old friends that don't want to attack you.  Hmmm ... Old friends that don't want to attack me ...  Can't you watch where you're ...  No. Right. Sorry. Come on guys, we've got to stick together. If I sweat anymore, I don't think sticking together will be a problem. Katara, can I have some more water? Okay, but we've got to try to conserve it.  We're drinking your bending water. You used this on the swamp guy! Urch! It does taste swampy.  I'm sorry, it's all we have. Not anymore! Look!  Sokka, wait! You shouldn't be eating strange plants! There's water trapped inside these!  I don't know ...  Suit yourself. It's very thirst quenching though.  Drink cactus juice. It'll quench ya! Nothing's quenchier. It's the quenchiest! Okay, I think you've had enough. Who lit Toph on fire? Can I get some of that cactus?  I don't think that's a good idea. Come on, we need to find Aang.  How did we get out here in the middle of the ocean? Appa! Appa! No ... No! What is that? What? What is what? It's a giant mushroom! Maybe it's friendly! Let's just keep moving. I hope Aang's okay ... Friendly mushroom! Mushy giant friend! Yeah, a little barefoot blind girl and her friends passed through here a few days ago. Did they give you any indication where they were headed‌? Maybe you could give me a little incentive‌? You suggesting I break your fingers‌? They went in the desert! Too bad there's almost no chance they survived. That's okay, 'cause she's wanted dead or alive. No she's not! I'm certain her father wants her alive. Hey, look ... Fire Nation wanted posters! So? So, look who's here. I'm sorry, Aang. I know it's hard for you right now but ... we need to focus on getting out of here.  What's the difference? We won't survive without Appa. We all know it.  Come on, Aang. We can do this if we work together. Right Toph? As far as I can feel, we're trapped in a giant bowl of sand pudding. I got nothin'.  Sokka? Any ideas how to find Ba Sing Se?  Why don't we ask the circle birds?  Ugh ... We're getting out of this desert, and we're going to do it together! Aang, get up. Everybody, hold hands. We can do this. We have to. I think we should stop for the night. Is there any more water? This is the last of it. Everyone can have a little drink.  Momo, no! You've killed us all! No, he hasn't.  Oh, right. Bending. Sokka, let me see the things you got from the library.  What?! I didn't steal anything! Who told you that? It was you! You ratted me out! Sokka, I was there.  It doesn't matter. None of those will tell us where Appa is. No, but we can find out which way Ba Sing Se is. We can use the stars to guide us. That way we can travel at night when it's cool and rest during the day. Just try to get some sleep. We'll start again in a few hours. No one here is going to help us. These people just look like filthy wanderers. So do we. Ah, this is interesting. I think I found our friend. You brought us here to gamble on Pai Sho? I don't think this is a gamble. Let's take them now! This place is full of desperate characters. If they find out we're collecting a bounty, we might have to fight them all just to keep our prize. Patience. May I have this game?  The guest has the first move. I see you favor the white lotus gambit. Not many still cling to the ancient ways.  Those who do can always find a friend. Then let us play. Welcome, brother. The White Lotus opens wide to those who know her secrets. What are you old gasbags talking about? I always tried to tell you that Pai Sho is more than just a game. I'm not waiting all night for these geezers to finish yapping! It's over! You two fugitives are coming with me!  I knew it! You two are wanted criminals with a giant bounty on your heads! I thought you said he would help!  He is. Just watch.  You think you're going to capture them and collect all that gold? Gold? Uh ... Maybe we shouldn't. Come on, get up. We need to go. Yesterday my mouth tasted like mud. Now it just tastes like sand. I never thought I'd miss the taste of mud so much. I'm awake. I couldn't sleep. Well, we need to get moving if we want to get out of this sand pit.  Appa! Appa‌? But why would Princess Yue need him‌? She's the moon! She flies by herself!  It's just a cloud. Wait! A cloud! Here, fly up and bend the water from that cloud into my pouch.  Wow ... there's hardly any in here.  I'm sorry, okay! It's a desert cloud; I did all I could! What's anyone else doing?! What are you doing‌?! Trying to keep everyone together. Let's just get moving. We need to head this direction. Ow! Crud! I am so sick of not feeling where I'm going! And what idiot buried a boat in the middle of the desert‌? A boat‌? Believe me, I kicked it hard enough to feel plenty of vibrations. It's one of the gliders the sandbenders use! And look! It's got some kind of compass on it! I bet it can point us out of here! Aang, you can bend a breeze so we can sail it. We're going to make it! It is an honor to welcome such a high-ranking member of the Order of the White Lotus. Being a Grand Master, you must know so many secrets.  Now that you played Pai Sho, are you going to do some flower arranging, or is someone in this club going to offer some real help‌? You must forgive my nephew. He is not an initiate and has little appreciation for the cryptic arts. Who knocks at the garden gate‌? One who has eaten the fruit and tasted its mysteries. I'm afraid it's members only. Wait out here. The needle on this compass doesn't seem to be pointing north according to my charts.  Take it easy little lady. I'm sure the sand folks who built this baby know how to get around here. That's what the compass is pointing to! That giant rock! It must be the magnetic center of the desert.  A rock‌?! Yes! Let's go!  Maybe we can find some water there!  Maybe we can find some sandbenders. Ahhh ... Finally! Solid ground!  I think my head is starting to clear out the cactus juice. And look! Tastes like rotten penguin meat! Awww, I feel woozy.  You've been hallucinating on cactus juice all day and then you just lick something you find stuck to the wall of a cave‌?! I have a natural curiosity. I don't think this is a normal cave. This was carved by something. Yeah ... look at the shape.  There's something buzzing in here. Something that's coming for us!  What are you doing? That rock almost crushed me! Sorry, I can't tell where they are in the air! I got this one. Sokka, there's nothing there! I guess my head's not as clear as I thought. We have to get out of here! I'm completely out of water to bend! Momo! I'm not losing anyone else out here. Come on, we're going down. Toph, shoot a rock right there. Fire! Yeah! You got it! She got it, right‌? Yes. Now let's move. On your left! What's going on? Is the club meeting over‌? Everything is taken care of. We're heading to Ba Sing Se. Ba Sing Se? ‌Why would we go to the Earth Kingdom capital‌?  The city is filled with refugees. No one will notice two more. We can hide in plain sight there. And it's the safest place in the world from the Fire Nation. Even I couldn't break through to the city.  I have the passports for our guests, but there are two men out on the street looking for them. You seen these guys‌? What are you doing in our land with a sandbender sailer? ‌ From the looks of it, you stole it from the Hami tribe. We found the sailer abandoned in the desert. We're traveling with the Avatar. Our bison was stolen and we have to get to Ba Sing Se. You dare accuse our people of theft while you ride in on a stolen sand sailer‌?! Quiet, Ghashiun. No one accused our people of anything. If what they say is true, we must give them hospitality. Sorry, father. I recognize the son's voice. He's the one that stole Appa. Are you sure?‌ I never forget a voice.  You stole Appa! Where is he? ‌What did you do to him? They're lying! They're the thieves!  Where is my bison‌? Hey you, where are these men‌? I got a tip that they're in your shop.  As you can see, no one is here but us. We know all about your secret back room. Kick it down. Hey! That room is for flowers only! Some unlucky soul has an incomplete Pai Sho set. Let's go back to finding the girl. You tell me where he is now!  What did you do‌? I-It wasn't me! You said to put a muzzle on him!  You muzzled Appa‌? I'm sorry! I didn't know that it belonged to the Avatar!  Tell me where Appa is!  I traded him! To some merchants! He's probably in Ba Sing Se by now! They were going to sell him there! Please! We'll escort you out of the desert! We'll help however we can! Just get out of here! Run!  This should give us a good idea of what's around here.  See if you can find a menu, I'm starving!  I bet we'll find something to eat here, the Fire Day's Festival. Fire Nation cultural exhibits, jugglers, benders, magicians ... This would be a great place for me to study some real firebenders.  You might wanna rethink that. Look at this.  Hey, a poster of me! A wanted poster! This is bad.   I think we better keep moving.  I have to learn firebending at some point and this could be my only chance to watch a master's up close.  I guess we could go check it out.   What? You wanna walk into a Fire Nation town where they're all fired-up with their ... you know, fire?   We'll wear disguises and if it looks like trouble, we'll leave.  Yeah! Because we always leave before we get into trouble.  You guys stay out of sight here while we go to the festival. Ready disguises!  It's like you're a whole different person ...  Let's go. I think we need some new disguises. Where are we gonna get masks like that? Get your genuine Fire Festival masks here! That was surprisingly easy. Hey, there's some food. Finally! What do you have? Flaming fire flakes! Best in town. I'll take'em! Aaahhh! Hot! Hot!  "Flaming fire flakes", hot? What do you know? Hey, look at this. Don't worry loyal citizens! No one can surprise the Fire Lord!  Oh no! Look out!  Aang, hold on! Where are we going? I don't know, but there's a big crowd so it must be good.  Knowing the Fire Nation, it's probably an execution. I gotta learn that trick! Thank you! For my next trick I need a volunteer from the audience!  Oh! Oh! Me! Me!  What do you think you're doing? I want to get a closer look. It's better that we don't attract any attention to ourselves. How about you, little lady?  Uh. Awww, she's shy. Leeet's give her some encouragement, folks!  Awww! That could've been me. This next trick is called "Taming the Dragon." You will be my captured princess! Don't worry, young maiden! I will tame this fiery beast! It's too strong, I can't hold it! We gotta help her! No, we don't want to make a scene! The rope, it's breaking! Hey, you tryin' to upstage me, kid? Hey! That kid's the Avatar!  I think it's time to go. Follow me! I can get you outta here!  There they are! Over there! I'm calling Appa.  I hope he can really hear that bison whistle!  This way! Okay! Not this way! Appa! Down here! Nice touch setting off the fireworks.  You really know your explosives ... I'm familiar. You're a Fire Nation Soldier!  My name's Chey. I serve a man. More than a man really, he's a myth, but he's real, a living legend, Jeong Jeong the Deserter. He was a Fire Nation general, or wait, was he an admiral?  He was very highly ranked, we get it. Yeah! Way up there! But he couldn't take the madness any more. He's the first person ever to leave the army - and live. I'm the second, but you don't get to be a legend for that. That's okay though. Jeong Jeong's a firebending genius. Some say he's mad - but he's not! He's enlightened. You mean there's a firebender out here who's not with the Fire Lord? We've gotta go see him! He can train me!  We're not gonna go find some crazy firebender!  He's not crazy! He's a genius! And he's the perfect person to train the Avatar! That's why I followed you into the festival. Look, thanks for the help, but we're leaving for the North Pole in the morning. Sokka, this could be my only chance to meet a firebending master who would actually be willing to teach me. It can't hurt just to talk to him.  That's what you said about going to the festival! Why doesn't anyone ever listen to me? Don't move!  Jeong Jeong told you not to look for Avatar! Hold on, you know these guys? Oh yeh! Lin Yee's an old buddy! Right, Lin Yee?  Shut up! Keep moving. Go on. He sees you only. Oh that's okay, we can chat later. Is that where Jeong Jeong is? I need to talk to him right away. No! You wait there. Go now! Don't worry! Everything'll be fine. He's a great man, great man! So, the Avatar was here and you let him slip away?  Yes, sir, but other than that the festival went off without a hitch! No fights. Theft was way down.  I don't care about your local crime rates! Which way did they go? They headed into the forest, up the river I suspect. Ready the river boats. We're going after the Avatar. What happened? Can I see Jeong Jeong now?  He won't see you. He's very angry that I brought you here. He wants you to leave immediately. Finally! Let's hit the road.  Why won't he see me? He says you're not ready. Says you haven't mastered waterbending and earthbending yet.  Wait, how does he know that? He saw the way you walked into camp. He could tell. I'm going in, anyway! Get out. Master, I need to learn firebending. Only a fool seeks his own destruction.  I'm the Avatar, it's my destiny to—  Destiny? What would a boy know of destiny? If a fish lives its whole life in this river, does he know the river's destiny? No! Only that it runs on and on out of his control! He may follow where it flows, but he cannot see the end. He cannot imagine the ocean. Okay, but it's the Avatar's duty to master all of the bending disciplines. To master the bending disciplines, you must first master discipline itself. But you have no interest in this, so I have no interest in you! Now, get out. Please, I have to learn. This could be my only chance. Are you deaf? How can I teach you if you refuse to listen? Before learning firebending you must learn water and earth. Water is cool and soothing, earth is steady and stable, but fire, fire is alive! It breathes, it grows. Without the bender, a rock will not throw itself! But fire will spread and destroy everything in its path if one does not have the will to control it! That is its destiny! You are not ready! You are too weak! You think I am weak? Avatar Roku! No, No! I did not mean that. I have mastered the elements a thousand times in a thousand lifetimes. Now, I must do it once again. You will teach the Avatar firebending. Yes, yes, I will teach you. Really? That's great!  Widen your stance. Wider! Bend your knees. Now, concentrate. Good, good! Wait! What do I do now?  Silence! Talking is not concentrating! Look at your friend, is she talking? Even that oaf knows to concentrate on what he's doing!  Hey! But what am I concentrating on? Feel the heat of the sun. It is the greatest source of fire. Yet, it is in complete balance with nature! So when do I get to make some fire? Concentrate! Are we coming up here so I don't burn anything with my fire blasts? No fire yet. What? Power in firebending comes from the breath. That is why you must master proper breath control. You brought me up here to breathe? Assume your stance.  Wider. You're not even look—   Now, inhale through the nose and exhale through the mouth - without talking. Good. Keep going. What are you doing here? I did not tell you to stop! I've been breathing for hours! You want to stop breathing? I want you to stop wasting my time! I already know how to squat and breathe and feel the sun! I wanna know how to shoot fire out of my fingertips!  I had a pupil once who had no interest in learning discipline. He was only concerned with the power of fire - how he could use it to destroy his opponents and wipe out the obstacles in his path, but fire is a horrible burden to bear. Its nature is to consume and without control it destroys everything around it.  Learn restraint, or risk destroying yourself and everything you love. I thought about what you said, I promise I'll be more patient. We're going to work with fire now. Oh yeah! I mean, let us begin. Concentrate on the fire. I want you to keep the flame from reaching the edges of the leaf for as long as you can. Master! There is trouble. What's going on? Concentrate on your leaf!  This is the firebending instruction ever! All he does is leave me for hours to concentrate or breathe! I'm sure there's a good reason. But I'm ready to do so much more.  I did it! I made fire! Aang, that's great, but you should take it slow. Now some firebending! Aang, you'll hurt yourself! I wonder how that juggler did it. Katara! I'm so sorry!  Katara, what's wrong? What did you do?! It was an accident! I was, uh... Katara, I'm so-- I told you we shouldn't mess around with this! Look what you did! ! You burned my sister! This is all your fault! I know! Now pack your things. You must leave immediately. I'm sorry, I didn't ... I'm sorry!  You have healing abilities. The great benders of the Water Tribe sometimes have this ability. I've always wished I were blessed like you - free from this burning curse. But you're a great master. You have powers that I will never know. Water brings healing and life. But fire brings only destruction and pain. It forces those of us burdened with its care to walk a razor's edge between humanity and savagery. Eventually, we are torn apart. Go get your friends and flee! Do not come back here or you will all be destroyed. Hurry! Don't worry, men. My old teacher gave up fighting a long time ago. Haven't you, Master Jeong Jeong? Katara! Are you all right? I'm fine, we've got to get out of here. Where's Aang?  Jeong Jeong tried to tell me that I wasn't ready. I wouldn't listen. I'm never going to firebend again. You'll have to eventually. No, never again. It's okay, Aang. I'm healed.  What? How? I'll explain later. But right now, we have to get out here. Zhao and his soldiers are attacking!  Where? By the river. They captured Jeong Jeong. I have to help him! Look at you. You were once so great. I can't believe my former master has become nothing more than a simple savage. It is you who have embraced savagery, Zhao. It's Admiral Zhao, now. That title will not help you against the Avatar. Do not try to fight him! You are no match!  I think I can handle a child. I have never seen such raw power ... Jeong Jeong! We'll see. Men! Take the deserter!  It's a trick! He's run off into the woods. Find him! Let's find out what my old master has taught you.  You were Jeong Jeong's student?! Until I got bored. I see he taught you how to duck and run like a coward. But I doubt he showed you what a firebender is truly capable of!  Whoa! Wild shot!  I'll show you wild! No self-control ...  Stand and fight, Avatar!  Oh, were we fighting? I thought you were just getting warmed up!  I was ...  Is that all you got? Man, they'll make anyone an admiral these days!  Ahoy! I'm Admiral Zhao! I don't know why, but I thought you'd be better than Zuko. Sloppy. Very sloppy. Nowhere to run now, you little smart mouth!  You've lost this battle.  Are you crazy? You haven't thrown a single blow! No, but you have. Jeong Jeong said you had no restraint. Have a nice walk home! Aang, come on! Let's go! Wait! Where's Jeong Jeong? He disappeared. They all did.  Hey, where did everybody go? Very funny guys Aang, you're burned! Let me help you.  Wow, that's good water. When did you learn that? I guess I always knew.  Oh ... Well then thanks for all the first aid over the years. Like when I fell into the greaseberry bramble. Or that time I had two fishhooks in my thumb!  Two?  He tried to get the first fishhook out with another fishhook.  Oh, and the time that mink snake bit me! Thanks for healing that up. That was great. Really helpful. This drill is a feat of scientific ingenuity and raw destructive power. Once it tunnels through the wall, our troops will storm their city. The Earth Kingdom will finally fall, and you can claim Ba Sing Se in the name of your father. Nothing can stop us.  Hmmm, what about those muscle-y guys down there?  Please. The drill's metal shell is impervious to any earthbending attack. Oh, I'm sure it is, War Minister Qin, but just to be on the safe side ... Mai and Ty Lee, take the earthbenders out!  Finally, something to do.   Aang, what are you doing here? I thought you were looking for Appa. I was, but something stopped me. Something big. Now what's so big that Appa has to wait?  That.  We made it to Ba Sing Se and we're still not safe. No one is!  What are you people doing here? Civilians aren't allowed on the wall! I'm the Avatar. Take me to whoever is in charge.  It is an honor to welcome you to the Outer Wall, young Avatar, but your help is not needed. Not needed?  Not needed. I have the situation under control. I assure you the Fire Nation cannot penetrate this wall. Many have tried to break through it, but none have succeeded. What about the Dragon of the West? He got in.  Well ... uh, technically yes, but he was quickly expunged. Nevertheless, that is why the city is named Ba Sing Se. It's the "impenetrable city". They don't call it Na Sing Se. That means "penetrable city." Yeah, thanks for the tour, but we still got the drill problem. Not for long. To stop it, I've sent an elite platoon of earthbenders called the Terra Team. That's a good group name. Very catchy. Ready ... attack!  We're doomed!   Get a hold of yourself, man!  You're right. I'm sorry. Maybe you'd like the Avatar's help now?  Yes, please. The question is, how are we going to stop that thing?  Why are you all looking at me? You're the idea guy.  So I'm the only one who can ever come up with a plan? That's a lot of pressure. And also the complaining guy. That part I don't mind. So, Mr. Lee and Mr. ummm ... Mushy, is it? It's pronounced Mushi.  You telling me how to do my job?  Uh, no, no. But may I just say you're like a flower in bloom. Your beauty is intoxicating.  You're pretty easy on the eyes yourself, handsome. Raorr! Welcome to Ba Sing Se.   I'm going to forget I saw that.  I think Lee would make a good Freedom Fighter. He's just trying to find his way in the world, like us. You don't know anything about him, Jet. I know he didn't get that scar from a waterbender. Besides, I thought we were going straight now. We are, and the new Freedom Fighters could use a guy like Lee. What do you think, Longshot? I can respect that. What's wrong with him? He doesn't look injured. His chi is blocked. Who did this to you? Two girls ambushed us. One of them hit me with a bunch of quick jabs and suddenly I couldn't earthbend anymore and I could barely move. Then she cartwheeled away.  Ty Lee. She doesn't look dangerous, but she knows the human body and its weak points. It's like she takes you down from the inside.  Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh! Ooh! Yes? What you just said! That's how we're going to take down the drill! The same way Ty Lee took down all those big earthbenders! By hitting its pressure points!  We'll take it down from the inside.  Once I whip up some cover, you're not going to be able to see. So, stay close to me. Run! Hey, look at that dust cloud. It's so ... poofy. Poof. Don't worry, Princess. I'm sure it's nothing.  Everyone into the hole! It's so dark down here, I can't see a thing!  Oh no, what a nightmare!  Sorry. There! Toph, come on! No way am I going in that metal monster. I can't bend in there. I'll try to slow it down out here. Okay, good luck!  I need a plan of this machine. Some schematics that show what the inside looks like. Then we can find its weak points. Where are we going to get something like that? What are you doing? Someone's going to hear us! That's the point. I figure a machine this big needs engineers to run it. And when something breaks ... They come to fix it!  Hi. This'll work. Thanks! It looks like the drill is made up of two main structures. There's the inner mechanism where we are now and the outer shell. The inner part and the outer part are connected by these braces. If we cut through them, the entire thing will collapse. So, you guys got plans once you're inside the city? Get your hot tea here! Finest tea in Ba Sing Se!  Ooh! Jasmine please. Blaugh! Ugh, coldest tea in Ba Sing Se is more like it! What a disgrace! Hey, can I talk to you for a second? You and I have a much better chance of making it in the city if we stick together. You want to join the Freedom Fighters? Thanks, but I don't think you want me in your gang. Come on, we made a great team looting that captain's food. Think of all the good we could do for these refugees.  I said no. Have it your way. Hey!  What are you doing firebending your tea? For a wise, old man, that was a pretty stupid move!  I know you're not supposed to cry over spilled tea, but ... it's just so sad! Wow, it looks a lot thicker in person than it does in the plans. We're going to have to work pretty hard to cut through that.  What's this "we" stuff? Aang and I are going to have to do all the work.  Look, I'm the plan guy. You two are the cut stuff up with waterbending guys. Together, we're Team Avatar!  C'mon team. Don't quit now. We're ...  Grrr! I mean, you're almost there.  At this rate, we won't do enough damage before the drill reaches the wall. I don't know how many more of those I have in me. Do you hear that? We took it down! We better get out of here fast! Congratulations, crew. The drill has made contact with the wall of Ba Sing Se. Start the countdown to victory!  C'mon brace ... budge!  This is bad, really bad. We're putting everything we've got into busting these braces, but it's taking too long!  Maybe we don't need to cut all the way through. Toph has been teaching me that you shouldn't give one hundred percent of your energy into any one strike. Sokka, take a fighting stance. You've got to be quick and accurate. Hit a series of points and break your opponent's stance. And when he's reeling back, you deliver the final blow. His own weight becomes his downfall, literally. So we just need to weaken the braces, instead of cutting all the way through. Then I'll go to the top of this thing and deliver the final blow.  And boom! It all comes crashing down! Everyone inside that wall. The whole world is counting on us. The whole world minus the Fire Nation that is.  C'mon, Twinkle Toes, hurry up! That's enough! We need to get to the next one! War Minister, an engineer was ambushed! His schematics were stolen! War Minister, a brace on the starboard side has been cut clean through! It's sabotage, sir!  Let's go, ladies! Good work, Team Avatar! Now Aang just needs to ... duck!  Whoa! Wow, Azula, you were right! It is the Avatar! ... and friends.  Hey. Guys, get out of here. I know what I need to do. Wait. You need this water more than I do! Follow them! The Avatar's mine!  Slurry pipeline? What does that mean?  It's rock and water mixed together. It means our way out!  Ugh, disgusting! C'mon! You heard Azula. We have to follow them! She can shoot all the lightning she wants at me. I am not going in that wall sludge juice.   Why don't you try blocking my chi now, circus freak? Katara, keep that up. The pressure will build up in the drill. Then when Aang delivers the final blow, it'll be ready to pop!  This looks like a good spot, Momo. General Sung, tell your soldiers to stop shooting rocks down here!  Soldiers, whatever you do, don't stop shooting rocks down there! Good technique, little sister! Keep it up! Don't forget to breathe!  You know, I'm just about sick and tired of you telling me what to do all day! You're like a chattering hog-monkey!  Just bend the slurry, woman!  You guys need some help? Toph, help me plug up this drain.  What I'd give to be a metalbender.  Momo, get out of here! Thanks, Momo. I owe you one. Now all I need ... Actually, that is what I need for once. Woohoo! Here it comes!  We lost. Last call for Ba Sing Se! Jet, relax. So the old guy had some hot tea. Big deal. He heated it himself! Those guys are firebenders! What a handsome baby.  Thank you. I just want to say, good effort out there today, Team Avatar!  Enough with the Team Avatar stuff. No matter how many times you say it, it's not going to catch on. How about ... the Boomeraang Squad! See it's good because it's got "Aang" in it. Boomeraang.  I kind of like that one.  Let's talk about this on our way into the city. The Aang Gang? Sokka ... The Fearsome Foursome?  You're crazy. Why? We're fearsome! I missed you more than you'll ever know, buddy.  Look, we escaped from the Dai Li. We got Appa back. I'm telling you, we should go to the Earth King now and tell him our plan. We're on a roll. One good hour after weeks of trouble isn't much of a roll. We can build on it. If we want to invade the Fire Nation when the eclipse happens, we'll need the Earth King's support. What makes you think we'll get it? I don't know if you've noticed, but things don't usually go that smoothly for our little gang. I know, but I've got a good feeling about this. This time will be different. Sokka, Long Feng is in control of the city. His conspiracy with the Dai Li is too powerful. I think we should just keep flying and leave this horrible place behind us. I'm with Sweetness. I've seen enough of Ba Sing Se. And I can't even see! But now that we have Appa back, there's nothing stopping us from telling the Earth King the truth. About the conspiracy and the War. See? Aang's with me. It's the whole reason we came here in the first place. We have to try.  Well, I guess if the Earth King knew the truth, things could change.   I don't trust the new positive Sokka. Long Feng brainwashed you, didn't he!? That's probably the Dai Li searching for us. So?  Let's fly! Can we please buy a new saddle? Riding bareback is terrifying!  There it is! That whole thing is the palace! The Earth King's chamber should be in the center! We have to be careful. Long Feng's probably warned the king that we're coming. Why would you assume that? If you ask me, I think we're just gonna sail right in and- Aahh! What was that? Surface-to-air rocks! More incoming!  Sorry! Sorry! We just need to get through to see the Earth King! Seriously, we're actually on your guys' side! Sorry. In there!  Toph, which way to the Earth King? How should I know? I'm still voting we leave Ba Sing Se. Burglar!   Sorry. Wrong door. You did the right thing. Letting the Avatar's bison go free. I don't feel right.  Zuko!  Now that's an impressive door. It's gotta go somewhere. Yaaah! A little warning next time? We need to talk to you.  They're here to overthrow you. No, we're on your side. We're here to help. You have to trust us.  You invade my palace, lay waste to all my guards, break down my fancy door, and you expect me to trust you? He has a good point. If you are on my side, then drop your weapons and stand down!  See? We're friends, Your Earthiness.   Detain the assailants! But we dropped our weapons. We're your allies. Make sure the Avatar and his friends never see daylight again.  The Avatar? You're the Avatar? Uh, no. Him.   Over here.  What does it matter, Your Highness? They're enemies of the state. Perhaps you're right. Though Bosco seems to like him. I'll hear what he has to say.   Well, sir, there's a war going on right now. For the past one hundred years in fact. The Dai Li's kept it secret from you. It's a conspiracy to control the city, and to control you. A secret war? That's crazy! Completely! Long Feng didn't want us to tell you, so he stole our sky bison to blackmail us. And blackmail is the least of his crimes; he brainwashed our friend!  All lies. I've never even seen a sky bison, Your Majesty. Frankly, I thought they were extinct.  Your claim is difficult to believe. Even from an Avatar.  These hooligans are part of an anarchist cell that my agents have been tracking for weeks.  If you listen to them, you're playing right into your own destruction.  I have to trust my advisor. Wait! I can prove he's lying. Long Feng said he's never seen a sky bison. Ask him to lift his robe. What? I am not disrobing!  Right there! Appa bit him! Never met a sky bison, huh?  That happens to be a large birth mark. Thanks for showing everyone. Well I suppose there's no way to prove where those marks came from. Of course there is! Yup. That pretty much proves it. But it doesn't prove this crazy conspiracy theory. Though, I suppose this matter's worth looking into.  You're burning up. You have an intense fever. This will help cool you down. So thirsty.   Here's some clean water to drink. Stay under the blankets and sweat this out.  So this is what a train is like? I didn't realize it would be this ... public. So you've never been outside the Upper Ring before? I've never been outside the palace. Now that's the way to travel. So, may I ask where we're going? Underneath Lake Laogai, Your Kingliness. To the Dai Li's secret headquarters. You're about to see where all the brainwashing and conspiring took place. It's gone! Oh don't tell me- ! That's okay. Still got my positive attitude. The Dai Li must've known we were coming and destroyed the evidence!  Hm ... That seems awfully convenient. Hey, if anything, this proves the conspiracy exists even more.  Long Feng was right. This was a waste of time. If you'll excuse me, I'm going back to the palace.  The wall. They'll never be able to cover that up in time. Oh, yeah. If you come with us to the Outer Wall, we can prove to you that the secret war is real. No Earth King has ever been to the Outer Wall. I don't have any more time for this nonsense.   If you come with us, this time you can ride on Appa.  First time flying? It's both thrilling and terrifying! Yeah. I hate it, too. I have to be honest with you: part of me really hopes that what you're telling me about this war isn't true. I wish it wasn't.  It's getting late. Are you planning to retire soon, my lord? I'm not tired.  Relax, Fire Lord Zuko. Just let go. Give in to it. Shut your eyes for a while.  No, Fire Lord Zuko! Do not listen to the blue dragon. You should get out of here right now. Go! Before it's too late!  Sleep now, Fire Lord Zuko. Sleep.  Just like mother! Zuko! Help me!   It's still there!  What is that? It's a drill. A giant drill made by the Fire Nation to break through your walls.  I can't believe I never knew.   I can explain this, Your Majesty. This is nothing more than ... a construction project.   Really? Then perhaps you could explain why there's a Fire Nation insignia on your "construction project".  Well it's imported of course. You know you can't trust domestic machinery. Surely you don't believe these children instead of your most loyal attendant?  Dai Li! Arrest Long Feng! I want him to stand trial for crimes against the Earth Kingdom. You can't arrest me! You all need me more than you know!   Looks like Long Feng is long gone! Ha! Ah, yeah, I've been waiting to use that one.  I want to thank you, young heroes, for opening my eyes. All this time, what I thought was a great metropolis was merely a city of fools. And that makes me the king fool. We're at war. With the Fire Nation. That's why we came to Ba Sing Se, Your Highness: because we think you can help us end the war.  We don't have much time. There's a comet coming this summer. Its energy will give the firebenders unbelievable strength. They'll be unstoppable. But there is hope. Before the comet comes, we have a window of opportunity: A solar eclipse is coming. The sun will be completely blocked out by the moon, and the firebenders will be helpless. What are you suggesting, Sokka? That's the day we need to invade the Fire Nation. The Day of Black Sun. I don't know. That would require moving troops out of Ba Sing Se. We'd be completely vulnerable. You're already vulnerable. The Fire Nation won't stop until Ba Sing Se falls. You can either sit back and wait for that to happen, or take the offensive and give yourself a fighting chance.  Very well. You have my support. Your Majesty. I apologize for the interruption.  This is General How. He's the leader of the Council of Five, my highest ranking generals. We searched Long Feng's office. I think we found something that will interest everybody.  There are secret files on everyone in Ba Sing Se. Including you kids. Secret files?  "Toph Beifong."   It's a letter from your mom. Your mom's here in the city. And she wants to see you.  Long Feng intercepted our letters from home? That's just sad.  Aang? This scroll was attached to the horn of your bison when the Dai Li captured it.  It's from the Eastern Air Temple. Is there a letter for me and Sokka by any chance?  I'm afraid not.  Oh. But there is an intelligence report that might interest you.   "A small fleet of Water Tribe ships."  What? That could be Dad!  "Protecting the mouth of Chameleon Bay. Led by Hakoda." It is Dad! You should know that this is not a natural sickness, but that shouldn't stop you from enjoying tea.  What's happening? Your critical decision. What you did beneath that lake. It was in such conflict with your image of yourself that you are now at war within your own mind and body.  What's that mean?  You are going through a metamorphosis, my nephew. It will not be a pleasant experience, but when you come out of it, you will be the beautiful prince you were always meant to be. I can't believe it. There's a man living at the Eastern Air Temple. He says he's a guru. What's a guru? Some kind of poisonous blow fish? No, a spiritual expert. He wants to help me take the next step in the Avatar journey. He says he can teach me to control the Avatar State. And I can't believe we know where our dad is now. I know what you mean. My mom's in the city. And from her letter it sounds like she finally understands me. This is all such big news! Where do we even start? I hate to say it, but we have to split up.  Split up? We just found Appa and got the family back together! Now you want us to separate? You have to meet this guru, Aang. If we're going to invade the Fire Nation, you need to be ready. Well, if I'm going to the Eastern Air Temple, Appa and I can drop you off at Chameleon Bay to see your dad. Someone has to stay here with the Earth King and help him plan for the invasion. I guess that's me. No, Sokka. I know how badly you wanna help Dad. You go to Chameleon Bay. I'll stay here with the king.  You are the nicest ... sister ... ever!  Easy there, big brother ... Though you're right. I am. Katara? I need to tell you something. I've been wanting to say it for a long time. What is it, Aang?  Katara, I-   All right. Who's ready to get going on our little men-only man trip?  Aang and Sokka, I wish you a good journey. Ba Sing Se owes you its thanks. We look forward to your safe return.  Your Majesty. There are three female warriors to see you. They're from the island of Kyoshi.  That's Suki!  You know these warriors?  Oh yeah. The Kyoshi Warriors are a skilled group of fighters. Trustworthy too. They're good friends of ours. Then we shall welcome them as honored guests.  Wait. Aang.  I'm really gonna miss you guys.  Me too. Yeah.  Aahh! Great. That's enough. Okay, we love each other. Seriously. You see, Aang? A little positive thinking works wonders. We got the king on our side, we got Long Feng arrested, and when we get back, Suki's waiting for me.  Yeah. Girls are waiting for us. Thanks, positive attitude. Everything is gonna work out perfectly. From now on and forever.   Dinner. The Council of Five and the military are loyal to the Earth King, but the Dai Li remains loyal to you, Long Feng, sir.   Hello? Mom? Anyone home? Hey! Who do you think you're dealing with!? One loud-mouthed little brat who strayed too far from home. In our hour of need, it is with the highest honor that I welcome our esteemed allies, the Kyoshi Warriors! We are the Earth King's humble servants. Doesn't it seem kind of weird that we're hiding from the Fire Lord in his own house? I told you, my father hasn't come here since our family was actually happy. And that was a long time ago. It's the last place anyone would think to look for us. You guys are not gonna believe this! There's a play about us.  We were just in town and we found this poster!  What? How is that possible? Listen to this ... " is a new production from acclaimed playwright Pu-on Tim, who scoured the globe gathering information on the Avatar, from the icy South Pole to the heart of Ba Sing Se. His sources include singing nomads, pirates, prisoners of war, and a surprisingly knowledgeable merchant of cabbage." "Brought to you by the critically acclaimed Ember Island Players."  Ugh! My mother used to take us to see them. They butchered every year! Sokka, do you really think it's a good idea for us to attend a play about ourselves?  Come on, a day at the theater? This is the kind of wacky time-wasting nonsense I've been missing!   Hey, uh ... I wanted to sit there.  Just sit next to me. What's the big deal? I was just, I wanted to ... okay.  Why are we sitting in the nosebleed section? My feet can't see a thing from up here! Don't worry, I'll tell your feet what's happening.  Sokka, my only brother! We constantly roam these icy South Pole seas, and yet never do we find anything fulfilling!  All I want is a full feeling in my stomach! I'm starving! Is food the only thing on your mind?  Well, I'm trying to get it out of my mind and into my mouth! I'm starving!   This is pathetic! My jokes are way funnier than this!   I think he's got you pegged!  Every day, the world awaits a beacon to guide us, yet none appears! Still, we cannot give up hope! For hope, is all we have! And we must never relinquish it, even ... even to our dying breath!   Well, that's just silly. I don't sound like that.  Oh man! This writer's a genius! It appears to be someone frozen in ice, perhaps for a hundred years.  But who? Who is the boy in the iceberg? Waterbend! Hi-yah! Who are you, frozen boy?  I'm the Avatar, silly, here to spread joy and fun!  Wait, is that a woman playing me?  An airbender! My heart is so full of hope, that it's making me tearbend!  My stomach is so empty, that it's making me tearbend! I need meat!   But wait! Is that a platter of meaty dumplings?   Ooh, where, where?  Did I mention that I'm an incurable prankster?   I don't do that! That's not what I'm like! And I'm not a woman!   Oh, they nailed you, Twinkle Toes!   Prince Zuko, you must try this cake!   I don't have time to stuff my face! I must capture the Avatar to regain my honor!   Well, while you do that, maybe I'll capture another slice.   You sicken me!  They make me look totally stiff and humorless.  Actually, I think that actor's pretty spot on.  How could you say that?  Let's forget about the Avatar and get massages!  How could you say that?! Hey look, I think I found something! It's a flying rabbit-monkey! I think I'll name him, Momo! Hi everybody, I love you!  Ugh.  Does this dress make my butt look fat? Riddles and challenges you must face, if you are ever to leave this place!   Ugh! Oh! Why did you have to steal that waterbending scroll?  It just gave me so much hope!  The Avatar is mine! Wait, who's coming?  I'm the Blue Spirit, the scourge of the Fire Nation, here to save the Avatar! My hero!  Don't cry, baby! Jet will wipe out that nasty town for you! Oh Jet, you're so bad.  Look! It's the Great Divide! The biggest canyon in the Earth Kingdom! Eh, let's keep flying. Don't go, Yue! You're the only woman who has taken my mind off of food! Wait, did you have pickled fish for dinner? Goodbye, Sokka! I have important moon duties to take care of! And yes, I did have pickled fish!  You never told me you made out with a Moon Spirit. [Placing a finger on Suki's lips] Shhh! I'm trying to watch!   The Avatar is back to save the day! Yay!  Ugh!  So far, this intermission is the best part of the play.  Apparently, the playwright thinks I'm an idiot who tells bad jokes about meat all the time!  Yeah, you tell bad jokes about plenty of other topics.  I know!  At least the Sokka actor kind of looks like you. That woman playing the Avatar doesn't resemble me at all! I don't know, you are more in touch with your feminine side than most guys.  Argh! Relax, Aang. They're not accurate portrayals. It's not like I'm a preachy crybaby who can't resist giving overemotional speeches about hope all the time. What?  Yeah, that's not you at all. Listen friends, it's obvious that the playwright did his research. I know it must hurt, but what you're seeing up there on that stage is the truth. Well, here we are in the Earth Kingdom!  I'd better have a look around to see if I can find an earthbending teacher!  This is it, this must be where I come in! I flew all over town, but I couldn't find a single earthbending master!  Here it comes ... [ You can't find an earthbending master in the sky, you have to look underground!  Who are you?  My name's Toph, because it sounds like tough, and that's just what I am!  Wait a minute,  ] I sound like a guy. A really buff guy. Well Toph, what you hear up there is the truth. It hurts, doesn't it? Are you kidding me? I wouldn't have cast it any other way! [ At least it's not a flying bald lady!  So, you're blind?   I can see you doing that. I see everything that you see, except I don't "see" like you do. I release a sonic wave from my mouth. There. I got a pretty good look at you.  Zuko, it's time we had a talk ... about your hair, it's gone too far! Maybe it's best if we ... split ... up!  Azula, my sister, what are you doing here? You caught me. Wait, what's that? I think it's your honor! Where?   She escaped, but how? If she continues drilling, this wall will come down for sure!  Haha, yes! Continue drilling! The city of Ba Sing Se can hide no longer! No, Jet! What did they do to you? Must ... serve ... Earth King! Must ... destroy! Did Jet just ... die? You know, it was really unclear. I have to admit Prince Zuko, I really find you attractive!  You don't have to make fun of me. But I mean it! I've had eyes for you since the day you first captured me!   Wait, I thought you were the Avatar's girl!   The Avatar? Why, he's like a little brother to me! I certainly don't think of him in a romantic way. Besides, how could he ever find out about ... this?   Oh, you're getting up? Can you get me some fire flakes? Ooh, and fire gummies!  Well, my brother, what's it going to be? Your nation, or a life of treachery?  Choose treachery, it's more fun!  No way!  I hate you, Uncle! You smell, and I hate you for all time!  You didn't really say that, did you? I might as well have. Avatar State, yip yip! Not if my lightning can help it! The Avatar is no more! It seems like every time there's a big battle, you guys barely make it out alive. I mean, you guys lose a lot! You're one to talk, Suki. Didn't Azula take you captive? That's right, she did!  Are you trying to get on my bad side? I'm just saying ... Does anyone know where Aang is? He left to get me fire gummies, like, ten minutes ago. And I'm still waiting! I'm gonna check outside. Are you all right?  No, I'm not! I hate this play!  I know it's upsetting, but it sounds like you're overreacting. Overreacting? If I hadn't blocked my chakra, I'd probably be in the Avatar State right now! Suki, what are the chances you can get me backstage? I got some jokes I want to give to the actor me.  I'm an elite warrior who's trained for many years in the art of stealth. I think I could get you backstage!   Geez, everyone's getting so upset about their characters. Even you seem more down than usual, and that's saying something! You don't get it, it's different for you. You get a muscly version of yourself, taking down ten bad guys at once, and making sassy remarks. Yeah, that's pretty great! But for me, it takes all the mistakes I've made in my life, and shoves them back in my face. My uncle, he's always been on my side, even when things were bad. He was there for me, he taught me so much, and how do I repay him? With a knife in his back. It's my greatest regret, and I may never get to redeem myself.  You have redeemed yourself to your uncle. You don't realize it, but you already have. How do you know? Because I once had a long conversation with the guy, and all he would talk about was you. Really? Yeah, and it was kind of annoying. Oh, sorry. But it was also very sweet. All your uncle wanted was for you to find your own path, and see the light. Now you're here with us. He'd be proud.  Ow! What was that for? That's how I show affection. Your Zuko costume's pretty good, but your scar's on the wrong side.  The scar's not on the wrong side!  He's coming this way! Can I help you? Actually, I think I can help you. I'm a big Sokka fan, but I don't think you're representing him quite as well as you could be.  Aww no, another fan with ideas.  Just hear me out. Here's something I think the real Sokka would say. What does the cabbage merchant use to fix his cabbages? A cabbage patch!  That's actually pretty good! Let me see those! "A rocky relationship" ... not bad!  Also, don't be afraid to make up some phrases, especially before an attack. Something like ... "Flying kick-a-pow!".  Who are you, anyway? I'm just a guy who likes comedy. Katara, did you really mean what you said in there? In where? What are you talking about? On stage, when you said I was just like a ... brother to you, and you didn't have feelings for me. I didn't say that. An actor said that. But it's true, isn't it? We kissed at the Invasion, and I thought we were gonna be together. But we're not. Aang, I don't know. Why don't you know? Because, we're in the middle of a war, and, we have other things to worry about. This isn't the right time. Well, when is the right time? Aang, I'm sorry, but right now I'm just a little confused. I just said I was confused! I'm going inside.  Ugh, I'm such an idiot!  Here's what you missed ... we went to the Fire Nation, and you got better, and Katara was the Painted Lady, and I got a sword, and I think Combustion Man died. Oh, look, the Invasion's about to start! Shhh! I just wanted to let you know, Aang, that I'll always love you. Like a brother.  I wouldn't want it any other way! Hey Toph, would you say you and Aang have a "rocky relationship"?   I told him to say that! I hope everyone's ready for the Invasion! Slap-a-pow!  We finally made it to the Royal Palace, but no one's home! Actually, I'm home, and I want to join you!  I guess we have no choice. Come on!   I guess that's it. The play's caught up to the present now. Wait, the play's not over!  But it is over, unless ... this is the future. With the energy harnessed from that comet, no one will be able to stop ... the Fire Nation! Father, Zuko and the Avatar are at the Palace. They're trying to stop you! You take care of Zuko. I shall face the Avatar myself!  Aang! You find the Fire Lord, I'll hold her off! You are no longer my brother. You are an enemy! No! I am the rightful heir to the throne! We'll see! Honor!  So, you have mastered all four elements?  Yeah, and now you're going down! No! It is you who are going down! You see, you are too late! The comet is already here, and I'm unstoppable!  Noooo ...!  It is over, Father. We've done it! Yes! We have done it! The dreams of my father, and my father's father, have now been realized! The world ... is ... mine! That ... wasn't a good play. I'll say. No kidding. Horrible. You said it.  But the effects were decent. I know you're nervous, but remember, firebending in it of itself is not something to fear.  Okay. Not something to fear.  But if you don't respect it, it'll chew you up and spit you out like an angry komodo rhino! Now show me what you've got. Any amount of fire you can make. Maybe I need a little more instruction. Perhaps a demonstration?  Good idea. You might wanna take a couple steps back.  What was that? That was the worst firebending I've ever seen!  I thought it was ... nice.   Why is this happening?  Maybe it's the altitude.  Yeah, could be. Just breathe, and ...   That one kind of felt hot.  Don't patronize me! You know what it's supposed to look like! Sorry, Sifu Hotman.  And stop calling me that! Hey, jerks! Mind if I watch you two jerks do your jerkbending?  Get out of here!  Okay, take it easy. I was just kiddin' around. Jerkbending, still got it.  Listen everybody, I've got some pretty bad news. I've lost my stuff.   Don't look at me, I didn't touch your stuff. I'm talking about my firebending. It's gone.  I'm sorry. I'm just laughing at the irony. You know, how it would've been nice for us if you lost your firebending a long time ago.  Well, it's not lost. It's just ... weaker for some reason.  Maybe you're not as good as you think you are.  Ouch.   I bet it's because I changed sides.  That's ridiculous.  I don't know. Maybe it isn't. Maybe your firebending comes from rage and you just don't have enough anger to fuel it the way you used to.  Sooo, all we need to do is make Zuko angry. Easy enough. Okay, cut it out! Look, even if you're right, I don't want to rely on hate and anger anymore. There has to be another way.  You're gonna need to learn to draw your firebending from a different source. I recommend the original source.   How's he supposed to do that‌? By jumping into a volcano‌? No. Zuko needs to go back to whatever the original source of firebending is.  So, is it jumping into a volcano? I don't know. For earthbending, the original benders were badgermoles.  One day, when I was little, I ran away and hid in a cave. That's where I met them. They were blind, just like me. So we understood each other. I was able to learn earthbending, not just as a martial art, but as an extension of my senses. For them, the original earthbenders, it wasn't just about fighting. It was their way of interacting with the world.  That's amazing, Toph!  I learned from the monks, but the original airbenders were the sky bison. Maybe you can give me a lesson sometime, buddy. Well, this doesn't help me. The original firebenders were the dragons, and they're extinct.  What do you mean‌? Roku had a dragon, and there were plenty of dragons when I was a kid.  Well, they aren't around anymore, okay? Okay, okay. I'm sorry. But maybe there's another way. The first people to learn from the dragons were the ancient Sun Warriors.  Sun Warriors? Well, I know they weren't around when I was a kid.  No, they died off thousands of years ago. But their civilization wasn't too far from where we are now. Maybe we can learn something by poking around their ruins. It's like the monks used to tell me. Sometimes, the shadows of the past can be felt by the present. So, what? Maybe you'll pick up some super old Sun Warrior energy just by standing where they stood a thousand years ago?  More or less. Either I find a new way to firebend, or the Avatar has to find a new teacher.  We've been riding for hours. I don't know why, but I thought this thing would be a lot faster.  Appa's right, Zuko. In our group, typically we start our missions with a more up-beat attitude.  I can't believe this.   Don't worry, you'll get the hang of it. Whoa! Even though these buildings are ancient, there's something eerily familiar about them. I can tell the Fire Sages' temples are somehow descended from these.  Okay. We've learned something about architecture. Hopefully, we'll learn something about firebending too. The past can be a great teacher.  Zuko, I think the past is trying to kill me.  I can't believe it. This booby trap must be centuries old and it still works. There's probably a lot more. Maybe this means we shouldn't be here.  Where's that up-beat attitude you were talkin' about? Besides, people don't make traps unless they've got something worth protecting. Look, this seems promising. Though I'm not sure what this tells us about the original source of firebending.  They look pretty angry to me.  I thought the dragons were friends with the Sun Warriors. Well, they had a funny way of showing it. Zuko, something happened to the dragons in the last hundred years. Something you're not telling me.  My great-grandfather Sozin happened. He started the tradition of hunting dragons for glory. There were the ultimate firebenders. And if you could conquer one, your firebending talents would become legendary and you'd earn the honorary title, Dragon. The last great dragon was conquered long before I was born, by my uncle.  But I thought your uncle was ... I don't know, good? He had a complicated past. Family tradition, I guess. Let's just move on. It's locked up! Wait. It's a celestial calendar. Just like the Fire Sages have in their temples. I bet that sunstone opens the door, but only when sunlight hits at just the right angle. On the solstice.  Monkeyfeathers! The solstice again? We can't wait here that long.  No, we can't. But we might be able to speed time up. Let's see if we can outsmart the sunstone. Nothing's happening.  Come on ...  You know, Zuko, I don't care what everyone else says about you. You're pretty smart. Relax. They're just statues. It says this is something called the Dancing Dragon. Zuko, get over here! I want you to dance with me!  What? Just do it. Let's follow the steps of the statues. Don't you see? These aren't dance moves. These statues are giving us a lesson. I think this is some kind of Sun Warrior firebending form. This better teach us some really good firebending. Hurray! Wait, what exactly is that?  It's some kind of mystical gemstone.  Well, don't touch it!  Why not? Remember what happened out there with those spikes? I'm just very suspicious of giant glowing gems sitting on pedestals. It feels almost alive.  Oh no, it's another trap! Ugh, I can't pull free. It's like some kind of glue.  I can't move! Zuko, do something! Me? I can't move either! It stopped. At least we have air. Maybe if we stay calm, we can figure a way out of this. You had to pick up the glowing egg, didn't you?  At least I made something happen. If it were up to you, we'd never have made it past the courtyard.  Help! Who are you yelling to? Nobody's lived here for centuries. Well, what do you think we should do? Think about our place in the universe‌?  Who is down there?  For trying to take our sunstone, you must be severely punished!  We didn't come here to take your sunstone. We came here to find the ancient origin of all firebending. Yeah, right. They are obviously thieves, here to steal Sun Warrior treasures. Please, I don't normally play this card, but ... I'm the Avatar. Just hear us out.  My name is Zuko, Crown Prince of the Fire Nation. O-or at least I used to be. I know my people have distorted the ways of firebending, to be fueled by anger and rage. But now I want to learn the true way, the original way. When we came here, I never imagined the Sun Warrior's civilization was secretly alive. I am truly humbled to be in your presence. Please, teach us.  If you wish to learn the ways of the Sun, you must learn them from the masters, Ran and Shaw.  Ran and Shaw? There are two of them?  When you present yourself to them, they will examine you. They'll read your hearts, your souls, and your ancestry. If they deem you worthy, they'll teach you. If they don't, you'll be destroyed on the spot. If you're going to see the masters, you must bring them a piece of the Eternal Flame. This fire is the very first one. It was given to man by the dragons. We have kept it going for thousands of years.  I don't believe it.  You will each take a piece of it to the masters, to show your commitment to the sacred art of firebending.  Umm, Mister Sun Chief Sir‌, yeah, I'm not a firebender yet. Couldn't my friend here carry my fire for me?  No. This ritual illustrates the essence of Sun Warrior philosophy. You must maintain a constant heat. The flame will go out if you make it too small. Make it too big, and you might lose control. I'm sorry, I'm just a little nervous. It's like a little heartbeat.  Fire is life, not just destruction. You will take your flames up there. The cave of the masters is beneath that rock. Hurry up. I can't. If I walk too fast, my flame will go out.  Your flame's gonna go out because it's too small. You're too timid, give it more juice.  But what if I can't control it?  You can do it. I know you can. You're a talented kid.  Facing the judgment of the firebending masters will be very dangerous for you. Your ancestors are directly responsible for the dragons' disappearance. The masters might not be so happy to see you.  I know I wouldn't be. But once they find out I'm the Avatar ...  Have you forgotten that you vanished, allowing the Fire Nation to wreak havoc on the world‌? The decline of the dragons is your burden, too.   We could turn back now. We've already learned more about fire than we'd hoped.  No, we're seeing this through to the end. We're gonna meet these masters and find out what's so great about them.  What if they judge us, and attack us?  Well, we're the Fire Prince and the Avatar. I think we could take these guys in a fight, whoever they are.  Bring 'em out!  Chanters!  Those who wish to meet the masters, Ran and Shaw, will now present their fire. Sound the call! What's happening‌? Zuko, my fire went out.  What do you want me to do‌? Give me some of yours.   No, just make your own.  I can't.   Get some from those warriors. Hurry! Stop cheating off me!  Quit being stingy! Uh oh.  These are the masters.  Still think we can take 'em? Sshh. I never said that. Oh, here it comes. Any moment now. Dinner for the masters.  Quiet, Ham Ghao! What? Everyone's thinking it.  Zuko, I think we're supposed to do the Dragon Dance with them.  What‌? What about this situation makes you think they want us to dance‌? Well, I think they want us to do something. Let's just try it.  Fine.  Judgment time. Wow.  I understand.  Their fire was beautiful. I saw so many colors, colors I've never imagined.  Like firebending harmony. Yes. They judged you, and gave you visions of the meaning of firebending.   I can't believe there are still living dragons. My uncle Iroh said he faced the last dragon and killed it.  So your uncle lied.  Actually, it wasn't a total lie. Iroh was the last outsider to face the masters. They deemed him worthy and passed the secret onto him as well.  He must have lied to protect them, so no one else would hunt them.  All this time, I thought firebending was destruction. Since I hurt Katara, I've been too afraid and hesitant. But now I know what it really is ... it's energy, and life.  Yeah. It's like the Sun, but inside of you. Do you guys realize this?  Well, our civilization is called the Sun Warriors ... so yeah. That's why my firebending was so weak before. Because for so many years, hunting you was my drive ... it was my purpose. So when I joined you, I lost sight of my inner fire. But now, I have a new drive. I have to help you defeat my father and restore balance to the world.  Now that you have learned the secrets, and you know about our tribe's existence, we have no choice but to imprison you here forever. Just kidding. But seriously, don't tell anyone!  With this technique the dragons showed us, Zuko and I will be unstoppable. Yeah, that's a great dance you two learned there. It's not a dance. It's a firebending form.  We'll just tap-dance our way to victory over the Fire Lord.  It's a sacred form that happens to be thousands of years old! Oh, yeah‌? What's your little form called‌?  The Dancing Dragon.  Look! He is taunting us! You are so going to be dinner!  Hey, where's the fishing line?  Oh, I didn't think you would need it, Sokka.   Aw, it's all tangled!  Not tangled. Woven! I made you a necklace, Katara. I thought since you lost your other one ...  Thanks, Aang. I love it.  Great, Aang. Maybe instead of saving the world, you can go into the jewelry-making business. I don't see why I can't do both. Stop taunting me!  So, how do I look?  You mean, all of you or just your neck? I mean, because they both look great!  Smoochie, smoochie, someone's in love!   I ... well, uh ...  Stop teasing him, Sokka. Aang's just a good friend. A sweet, little guy! Just like Momo.   Thanks.  Someone's being attacked by a platypus bear! Well, hello there! Nice day, isn't it? Make noise! He'll run off! No, play dead! He'll lose interest!  Whoa, close one!   Run downhill, then climb a tree! No, punch him in the bill!  And then run in zig-zags! No need, it's going to be fine!  Whoa there!  Mmm, lunch! Lucky for you, we came along. Thanks, but everything was already under control. Not to worry. Aunt Wu predicted I'd have a safe journey.  Aunt who? No, Aunt Wu. She's the fortuneteller from my village. Awful nice knowing your future.  Wow, it must be. That explains why you were so calm! But the fortuneteller was wrong! You didn't have a safe journey; you were almost killed!  But I wasn't! All right, have a good one! Oh, and Aunt Wu said if I met any travelers to give them this.  Maybe we should go see Aunt Wu and learn our fortunes. It could be fun. Oh, come on. Fortune telling is nonsense! What do you know? An umbrella! That proves it!   No, it doesn't! You can't really tell the future!  I guess you're not really getting wet then.  Of course she predicted it was going to rain. The sky's been gray all day! Just admit you might be wrong, and you can come under the umbrella. Look, I'm going to predict the future now. It's going to keep drizzling. See? Not everyone has the gift, Sokka.  Agh! Aunt Wu is expecting you.  Really? My name is Meng and I'm Aunt Wu's assistant.  Well, hello there.  Hello.  Can I get you some tea or some of Aunt Wu's special bean curd puffs?  I'll try a curd puff.  Just a second. So what's your name?  Aang.  That rhymes with Meng! And you've got some pretty big ears, don't you?  I guess.  Don't be modest! They're huge!  Well, Aang, it was very nice to meet you. Very nice.  Likewise. I can't believe we're here in the house of nonsense. Try to keep an open mind, Sokka. There are things in this world that just can't be explained. Wouldn't it be nice to have some insight into your future?  It would be nice to have some bean curd puffs. Oh, Meng! Aunt Wu says I'm going to meet my true love. He's going to give me a rare panda lily. That's so romantic! I wonder if my true love will give me a rare flower.  Good luck with that!  Is that the big-eared guy who Aunt Wu predicted you'd marry?  Enjoy your snack!  Welcome, young travelers. Now, who's next? Don't be shy.  I guess that's me.  Mm, not bad, not bad! Mhm?  I'm good on puffs. So, what do you think they're talking about back there?  Boring stuff I'm sure. Love, who she's going to marry, how many babies she's going to have.  Yeah, dumb stuff like that ... Well, I've got to find a bathroom. Your palms are so smooth. Do you use moisturizer? Actually, I have this special seaweed lotion. I can get you some if you want. So, do you see anything interesting in my love line?   I feel a great romance for you. The man you are going to marry.  Tell me more! I can see that he's a very powerful bender. Looks like someone had a pretty good bathroom break. Yeah ... when I was in there ...  I don't even want to know!  Who's next?  Okay, let's get this over with.  Your future is full of struggle and anguish. Most of it, self-inflicted.  But you didn't read my palms or anything! I don't need to. It's written all over your face. You there, come with me. This is the most reliable method of telling your fortune. The bones never lie. Go on, pick one. Now throw it on the fire. The heat makes cracks in the bone and I read the bone cracks to tell your destiny. Wow, that's a big crack.  I've never seen this before!  Oh my! Your destiny! This is incredible. You will be involved in a great battle, an awesome conflict between the forces of good and evil. A battle whose outcome will determine the fate of the whole world!  Yeah, yeah, I knew that already. But did it say anything about a girl?  A girl? You want to know about love?  Yes! I'm sorry, but I didn't see anything.  Well, look! I must've missed something. Right here. It says "trust your heart and you will be with the one you love." Really? Thank you, Aunt Wu! Well, now you got to see for yourselves how fortune telling is just a big, stupid hoax. You're just saying that because you're going to make yourself unhappy your whole life.  That woman is crazy! My life will calm and happy and joyful! That doesn't prove anything!  Well, I liked my predictions. Certain things are going to turn out very well.  They sure are ... Why? What did she tell you?  Some stuff. You'll find out.  What's with the sky?  We are waiting for Aunt Wu to come and read the clouds to predict the fate of the whole village.  That cloud kind of looks like a fluffy bunny.  You better hope that's not a bunny! The fluffy bunny cloud forecasts doom and destruction.  Do you even hear yourself?  The cloud reading will tell us if Mt. Makapu will remain dormant for another year or if it will erupt. We used to have a tradition once a year of going up the mountain to check the volcano ourselves. But every since Aunt Wu moved to the village twenty years ago, we have a tradition of not doing that. I can't believe you would trust your lives to that crazy, old woman's superstition!  Shhh! She's coming!  Hey, Aang. Don't you think that cloud looks like a flower?  Huh? Sure, I guess. Hey, Katara, don't you think that cloud look like a flower?  Shhh!  Bending arrow cloud ... good crops this year. Nice big harvest.  Darn good news! Wavy, moon-shaped cloud ... let's see. Gonna be a great year for twins!  Yes!  And a cumulus cloud with a twisted nob coming off the end of it ... The village will not be destroyed by the volcano this year!  Since I got you here, uh, there's something I want to tell you. I like you, but more than normal.  Never mind. Hi, Aunt Wu! Sorry to bother you. Any time. About this man I'm supposed to marry ... Is he going to be handsome? Oh, I hope he's tall! Ah ... You want another reading? Yes, please! I can't believe all these saps! Someone really needs to scream some sense into them. They seem happy, Sokka. Not for long. I'm going to prove Aunt Wu's predictions are nonsense. Hey you, I bet Aunt Wu told you to wear those red shoes, didn't she?  Yeah. She said I'd be wearing red shoes when I met my true love. Uh huh ... And how many times have you worn those shoes since you got that fortune?  Everyday.  Then of course it's gonna come true!  Really? You think so? I'm so excited! And then you will have your third great-grandchild before quietly passing away in your sleep. Is that enough information for you?  Wow, thanks, Aunt Wu. Oh wait, one more thing. How warmly should I dress tomorrow? You want me to do a reading for that?  I don't care what Aunt Wu told you! You have to take a bath sometime! So, Sokka, you know some stuff about ladies, right?  Some stuff? You've come to the right place. What can I do you for? Well, there's this girl.  I think I know who you mean.  You do? And you're okay with it? Of course I am. And to tell you the truth, I've been picking up a subtle vibe that she likes you, too.  She does? Oh yeah, she's crazy about you. All you have to do now is not mess it up. Well, how do I do that? The number once mistake nice guys like you make: being too nice. You can be too nice? Yep. If you want to keep her interested, you have to act aloof, like you don't really care one way or the other. Well, okay ... Hey, Aang, I was wondering ... See you later ...   Wow, that kid is good. And you'll be fine as long as you've got a scarf. Bye-bye now. Okay, okay, but one more thing.  All right, what is it?  Should I eat a mango or a papaya for breakfast tomorrow?  Papaya!   Aww, I hate papaya.  Oh, hey, Katara. I didn't see you there.  Hey, Aang.   That's okay. I'm busy with my own stuff.  Ugh, papaya please.  So ... papaya. Uh huh. Would you like some?  You know me. I don't really care what I eat.  Okay then. See you later.  Maybe aloof isn't my style.  Oh, a panda lily!  Did you see that? Excuse me. Where can a guy find one of those things?  I can't believe you're dragging me all the way up here for a stupid flower. Not just any flower, a panda lily. I've seen it in action and boy, does it work. Flowers are fine once you're married, but at this early stage, it's critical that you maintain maximum aloofness. But my heart is telling me to get this flower, and Aunt Wu said if I trusted in my heart, I will be with the one I love.  What? Don't tell me you believe in that stuff, too.  Well, Aunt Wu hasn't been wrong yet. Why should she be wrong about love? There! On the rim!  Oh no. Aunt Wu was wrong. Those people all think they're safe! We've got to warn them! There's no time to walk! Grab on!   Hi, Katara.  Can you believe she won't let me in? And after all the business I've given her? But she doesn't even charge. I know, but still ... Well, we have other things to worry about. Aunt Wu was wrong about the volcano.  Sokka, you tried to convince me she was wrong before. It's going to take an awful lot to change my mind -  Oh no.  Everyone, that volcano is gonna blow any second! Aunt Wu was wrong!  Yeah, yeah, we know you don't believe in Aunt Wu, Mr. science and reason lover.  If you won't listen to him, maybe you'll listen to me. I want to believe Aunt Wu and her predictions as much as you do, but my brother and Aang saw the lava with their own eyes.  Well, I heard Aunt Wu's prediction with my own ears.  Please listen to us! You are all in danger! And we have to get out of here! You can't rely on Aunt Wu's prediction, you have to take fate into your own hands! Look! Can your fortune telling explain that?  Can your science explain why it rains?  Yes! Yes, it can!  They just won't listen to reason.   But they will listen to Aunt Wu! I know that's the problem. Well, it's about to become the solution. We're taking fate in our own hands. First, I need to borrow Aunt Wu's cloud reading book.  Shhh! We don't want anyone to hear us. Oh, I didn't see you there.  You don't like me, do you?  Of course I like you.  But not the way I like you. Oh, I guess not. It's okay. It's just really hard when you like someone, but they don't think of you that way.  I know what you mean.  She's beautiful, by the way.  Huh?  That Water Tribe girl. I can see why you like her so much. She's sweet, she's a bender and her hair seems so manageable.  Don't worry. You're going to meet a great guy who's going to completely fall for you. I know it.  Thanks. Wait! Don't you want this?  How did you know?  I've kind of been stalking you. Heh ...  Oh, thanks ... I guess. Clouds are made of water and air, so between the two of us, we ought to be able to bend them into any shape we want.  I found it. The symbol for volcanic doom. Aunt Wu, look! Something is happening in the clouds.  That's very strange. It shouldn't ... Oh my! We still can save the village if we act fast. Sokka has a plan.  Lava is gonna flow downhill to this spot. If we can dig a deep enough trench we can channel all the lava away from the village to the river. If any of you are earthbenders, come with me.  I'm an earthbender!  I'm not! Everybody else grab a shovel Come on! We've gotta hurry!  Dig faster! Dig faster! Everyone needs to evacuate! We'll come for you when it's safe! It's too much! It's gonna overflow! Man, sometimes I forget what a powerful bender that kid is.  Wait, what did you just say?  Nothing, just that Aang is one powerful bender.  I suppose he is.  By the way, we kind of borrowed your book. So you messed with the clouds, did you?  Very clever! No offense, but I hope this taught everyone a lesson about not relying too much on fortune telling.  But Aunt Wu predicted the village wouldn't be destroyed and it wasn't. She was right, after all.  I hate you.  It's okay, Sokka. Everything's going to be all right. Can I ask you something? Of course, honey.  You didn't really see love in my fortune, did you? You just told me what I wanted to hear. I'll tell you a little secret, young airbender. Just as you reshaped those clouds, you have the power to shape your own destiny.  Goodbye everyone! It was so nice to meet you! Take care, Meng.  Take care! Floozy. Um, aren't you forgetting the tarp? Right, got it ...  Sokka, you're supposed to put the tarp of the tent. You know, so we don't get rained on?  Ordinarily, you'd be right, but seeing how it's the dry season, you're not. Besides that tarp makes a pretty warm blanket. But what if it does rain?  What if it doesn't? Then I would have put up the tarp for nothing. You're infuriating! Katara, why don't you worry about gathering firewood, because that kindling is looking pretty sorry.  Well, if you don't like my firewood-   Fine by me, if you're not gonna do your job-  Okay, I got the grub if you guys got the- hey, where's the campfire? And what happened to the tent? Why don't you ask Miss Know-It-All, Queen of the Twigs. Oh yeah? Well, you're Mister Lazy Bum, King of the Tents!   Okay, listen guys, harsh words won't solve problems, action will. Why don't you just switch jobs? Sounds good.  Whatever.  You see that? Settling feuds and making peace, all in a day's work for the Avatar. Come on, Momo, that's fair. Appa's got five stomachs.  There it is, guys, The Great Divide.  Wow, I could just stare at it forever.  Okay, I've seen enough. How can you not be fascinated Sokka? This is the largest canyon in the entire world. Then I'm sure we'll be able to see it very clearly from the air while we fly away.  If you're looking for the canyon guide, I was here first! Ooh, canyon guide? Sounds informative. Believe me, he's more than a tour guide, he's an earthbender, and the only way in and out of the canyon is with his help, and he's taking my tribe across next. Calm down, we know you're next. You wouldn't be so calm if the Fire Nation destroyed your home and forced you> to flee! My whole tribe has to walk thousands of miles to the capital city of Ba Sing Se. You're a refugee! Huh, tell me something I don't know. Is that your tribe? It most certainly is not! That's the Zhang tribe, a bunch of low-life thieves. They've been the enemies of my tribe for a hundred years. Hey, Zhangs! I'm saving a spot for my tribe so don't even think about stealing it! Where are the rest of the Gan Jin? Still tidying up their camp site? Yes, but they sent me ahead of them to hold a spot. I didn't know the canyon guide took reservations. Ha, of course you didn't! That's the ignorance I'd expect from So unorganized and ill-prepared for a journey.  Sorry about the wait, youngsters. Who's ready to cross this here canyon? Uh, one of them, I think.   I was here first, my party's on their way. I can't guide people who aren't here.   Guess you guys will have to make the trip tomorrow. Wait, here they come!   You're not seriously gonna cave into these spoiled Gan Jins? I mean we're refugees too! And we've got sick people that need shelter. I ... uh ... well ... We've got old people who are weary from traveling. Sick people get priority over old people. Maybe you Zhangs wouldn't have so many sick people if you weren't such slobs. If you Gan Jins weren't so clean, you wouldn't live to be so old.  Well Aang, ready to put your peace-making skills to the test? I don't know, a fight over chores is one thing, but these people have been feuding for a hundred years.  Everybody listen up! This is the Avatar, and if you give him a chance, I'm sure he can come up with a compromise that will make everyone happy. Uh, you could share the earthbender and travel together? Absolutely not! We'd rather be taken by the Fire Nation than travel with those stinking thieves! We wouldn't travel with those pompous fools anyway!   All right here's the deal, you're all going down together and Appa here will fly your sick and elderly across! Does that seem fair?   Sorry, Appa, you'll have to do this on your own. Aang, this feuding tribe stuff is serious business. Are you sure it's a good idea getting involved in this?  To tell you the truth, I'm not sure. But when have I ever been? He's the Avatar, Sokka, making peace between people is his job.  His job's gonna make us cross this whole canyon on foot isn't it?  Okay, now comes the bad news. No food allowed in the canyon, it attracts dangerous predators.  No food?! This is ridiculous. Oh, you babies can go a day without food? Would you rather be hungry, or dead? Now, we're heading down in ten minutes. All food better be in your gut or in the garbage!  Appa's going to take good care of you 'till we get there. See you on the other side, buddy! Yip yip!  Nice bending! The job's much more than bending, kid. Folks want information. Many of you are probably wondering how canyons are formed. Experts tell us this canyon was most likely carved into the ground by earth spirits who were angry at local farmers for not offering them a proper sacrifice. He he he, guess the spirits are still angry! Hope you all brought sacrifices. Okay, everyone stand clear of the wall.  Why'd you do that? These people are fleeing the Fire Nation, aren't they? Gotta make sure we can't be followed. We'll be safe now.  We gotta help him! Okay, now we gotta help me!   What was that?  Canyon crawler. And there's sure to be more! Your arms, they're broken! Without my arms, I got no bending. In other words- We're trapped in this canyon. I thought the whole point of ditching our food was so we wouldn't have to deal with things like canyon crawlers. It's the Zhangs! They took food down here even after the canyon guide told them not to. What? If there's anyone who can't go without food for a day, it's you pampered Gan Jins! I hope you're happy. We're stuck in this canyon with no way out. Why don't you thank yourself, food hider? Look, sticking together is the only way to- I'm not walking another step with the likes of them! Now there's something we can agree on.  Any ideas? No bendng ... we need to get out of this canyon ... I won't die down here! I won't become part of the food chain! See! We're going to become part of the food chain because of you!  Sure, unjustly blame the Zhangs like you always do! Gladly.  Enough! I thought I could help you guys get along, but I guess that's not gonna happen. We should split up, Gan Jins on this side and Zhangs on that side. We'll travel in two separate lines. Sokka, you go with the Zhangs and Katara, you go with the Gan Jins. See if you can find out why they hate each other so much. So, you guys aren't going to put up your tarps? What for? Its the dry season. Exactly! Besides, we like to use the tarp as a blanket.  Finally, someone gets it! You really think it'll rain? No, but you can never be too careful, right? Would you care for some bread, Katara? So it was you guys who had food! Oh come now, you really think that tribe of thieves isn't smuggling food? Why should my people go hungry when the sneaky Zhangs are stuffing their faces?  Well, I guess it's okay if everyone's doing it. So, why does your tribe hate the Zhangs so much? You seem like a smart girl Katara, I bet you would enjoy hearing some history. The patriarch of our tribe, Jin Wei, was an earthbender warrior who was assigned an important duty, transporting our sacred orb from the great eastern gate, to the great western gate. Taking the orb from the east to the west represents the sun's rising and setting. It was our tribe's ancient redemption ritual. But as he approached the gate, Jin Wei was attacked by one of the Zhang, a vermin named Wei Jin, who looked at the orb with envy. That coward Wei Jin knocked Jin Wei to the ground, and stole our sacred orb. Our people have never forgotten. You can never trust a Zhang.  Care for some meat? Would I!  I know what you must be thinking, we're horrible for endangering everybody by bringing food down here. Hm-hmm. The Gan Jin think so badly of us, they probably assumed we brought food in and decided to bring food in themselves. That's why we brought food in.  Hmm. Our conflict with the Gan Jin goes back over a hundred years. Our forefather Wei Jin was leaving the western gate of our village, when he saw a figure in the distance. It was a man of the Gan Jin tribe, Jin Wei, collapsed on the ground. Noble Wei Jin stopped to help him. Jin Wei was transporting a sacred orb, a very powerful relic used in his tribe's redemption ritual. Wei Jin tried to tend to the man's wounds but Jin Wei insisted the orb was more important, and asked him to take it back to his tribe. Kind Wei Jin promised to send help for the man as soon as he could, but as Wei Jin crossed the border to return the orb into Gan Jin territory, he was arrested. Instead of thanking him for his kind and selfless deed, they sentenced him to twenty long years in prison. We Zhangs will never forget that injustice. That's just terrible. You gonna finish that? Sure would be nice to be sitting around one of those campfires, telling stories and laughing. Its okay Momo, we'll be out of here soon enough, and then we can eat our weight in leechi nuts! Nah, I'll wait for the leechi nuts.  Lonely isn't it, being impartial? I wish I could help these people get along, but it just seems impossible. Anyhow, I guess our biggest problem is getting out of here. I'm not so sure the two problems are unrelated. All clear, we're almost to the other side.  Katara, Sokka, will these people cooperate long enough to get out of the canyon? I don't think so, Aang, the Zhangs really wronged the Gan Jins. They ambushed Jin Wei and stole the sacred orb. What are you talking about? Yeah Katara, what are you talking about? Wei Jin didn't steal the orb, he was returning it to their village gate and was wrongfully punished by the Gan Jin. Not punished enough if you ask me.  Okay, okay I get it! Now I need your help, I need everyone together at the base of the canyon wall. Please everyone, as soon as we get out of here we can eat and then go our separate ways, but I need you all to put your heads together and figure out a way up this cliff. Maybe the Zhang can climb the wall with their long disgusting fingernails. Oh sorry, I forgot that to the Gan Jin unclipped fingernails is a crime punishable by twenty years in jail! Why, you dirty thief! You pompous fool!  Guys, focus! How many times do I have to say it? Harsh words won't solve problems, action will! Perhaps the Avatar is right. Yes, perhaps he is.  Harsh words will never solve our problems. Action will! To the death! And let this be the end of this rivalry! You know, I take it back. Harsh words aren't so bad!  Is that ... food? Everyone smuggled food down here? Unbelievable! You guys put our lives in danger because you couldn't go without a snack for a day? You're all awful! So hungry. Is that an egg custard in that tart?  Oh no, that's a lot of canyon crawlers.  We barely survived one! They're coming back for me! They've had a taste and they're coming back for me! Sokka, wait. I don't care about this stupid feud, I just want us to get out of here alive. Me too. I only took their side 'cause they fed me.  Everybody, watch me and do what I do! Now follow me! We're riding out of this hole! Everyone, get off!  We made it! I never thought a Gan Jin could get his hands dirty like that. And I never knew you Zhangs were so reliable in a pinch. Perhaps we're not so different after all.  Too bad we can't rewrite history. You thieves stole our sacred orb from Jin Wei!   You tyrants unjustly imprisoned Wei Jin for twenty long years!  Wait a second ... Jin Wei? Wei Jin? I know those guys! Yes, yes, we're all aware of the story. No, I mean I really knew them. I might not look it, but I'm a hundred and twelve years old. I was there one hundred years ago on the day you're talking about. There seems to be a lot of confusion about what happened. First of all, Jin Wei and Wei Jin weren't enemies. They were brothers, twins in fact, and they were eight; and most importantly, they were just playing a game! The sacred orb from the legend, that was the ball! And the eastern and western gates were the goal posts. Jin Wei had the ball and was running toward the goal when he fell and fumbled it. Wei Jin didn't steal the ball, he picked it up and started running it toward the other goal, but he stepped out of bounds, so the official put him in the penalty box. Not for twenty long years but for two short minutes. There was no stealing and no putting anyone in imprison, it was just a game. You're saying the sacred orb was actually a sacred ball? Nope, just a regular ball. What about our tribe's redemption ritual? That's what the game was called, redemption. As soon as you got the ball from one end to the other, everyone would yell "redemption"! Don't get me wrong, Wei Jin was kind of a slob and Jin Wei was a little stuffy, that much is true. But they respected each other's differences enough to share the same playing field.  I suppose it's time we forget the past.  And look to the future. Good to see you, boy. Did you miss me?  I cannot thank you enough, Avatar.  Well, you know I try.  Ugh! Let us travel to the Earth Kingdom capital as one tribe.   I'm going too! I'm sick of this place! That's some luck you knew Jin Wei and Wei Jin. You could call it luck. Or you could call it lying.  What? I made the whole thing up.  You did not! That is so wrong. Now where is that custard tart? I'm starving! What's that smell? It's jook. I'm sure you wouldn't like it.  Actually, it smells delicious. I'd love a bowl, Uncle.  Now that your fever is gone, you seem different somehow.  It's a new day. We've got a new apartment, new furniture, and today's the grand opening of your new tea shop. Things are looking up, Uncle.  You haven't seen your dad in over two years. You must be so excited!  I know I should be, but, I just feel sick to my stomach.  Don't be nervous. He's going to be so happy to see you!  So what about you? Are you nervous to meet this guru? Not at all. I'm ready to master the Avatar State. I'll do whatever it takes. See you in a week. Yip yip! Sokka, good to see you. Sokka. Hi, Dad. Look Bosco! The Kyoshi Warriors are here to protect us! Aren't you excited? It's been a difficult week for me. My most trusted advisor, Long Feng, and his Dai Li agents tried to take control of Ba Sing Se from me. It's terrible when you can't trust the people who are closest to you.  But there is good news. As we speak, the Council of Five is meeting to plan an invasion of the Fire Nation this summer, on the day of a solar eclipse. Really? Now that sounds like a fascinating and brilliant plan.  General Fong's base will serve as the launching point for the attack. In exactly two months, the army and navy will invade the Fire Nation on the Day of Black Sun. Or we could send in Momo to do some damage! 'Cause, the ... sorry.  All we need is the Earth King's seal in order to execute the plan.  I'll get these scrolls to him right away. Thank you, General How. Uhhh ... hello? You're Guru Pathik, right? The person who attached the note to Appa's horn? Indeed. I was a spiritual brother of your people and a personal friend of Monk Gyatso.  In your note, you said you could teach me how to gain control of the Avatar State. How? You must gain balance within yourself, before you can bring balance to the world. And the first step to gaining balance begins with this. Drink up!  Uggh! It tastes like onion and banana juice! That's because it is! Yum yum! I believe we need to go right! What are you talking about? The Beifong Estate's this way! I'm quite certain you're mistaken.  Hey! Can you two old ladies quit your bickering for a second? I got to go to the bathroom! Oooh ... uhhh, okay, but make it quick!   What's wrong with you? Ooh, very sneaky Toph! Nice try, but you can't trick me!  Let me out of here so I can kick both your butts! Quit your banging! You might think you're the greatest earthbender in the world, but even you can't bend metal! We have been presented with an extraordinary opportunity, girls. Mai finally gets to wear make-up that's not totally depressing?   Ha, ha. I'm talking about conquering the whole Earth Kingdom. For one hundred years, the Fire Nation has hammered away at Ba Sing Se from the outside.  But now we're on the inside, and we can take it by ourselves.  Gosh, you're so confident. I really admire that about you. From the inside, we're in perfect position to organize a coup and overthrow the Earth King. The key is the Dai Li. Whoever controls the Dai Li controls Ba Sing Se. In order to master the Avatar State, you must open all the chakras. Aang, tell me everything you know about chakras.  What are chakras?  Oh, I see. I guess we'll start with the basics. The water flows through this creek, much like the energy flows through your body. As you see, there are several pools where the water swirls around before flowing on. These pools are like our chakras. So chakras are pools of spiraling energy in our bodies? Exactly. If nothing else were around, this creek would flow pure and clear. However, life is messy, and things tend to fall in the creek. And then what happens? The creek can't flow? Yes. But, if we open the ponds between the pools ...  The energy flows!  There are seven chakras that go up the body. Each pool of energy has a purpose, and can be blocked by a specific kind of emotional muck. Be warned, opening the chakras is an intense experience, and once you begin the process, you cannot stop until all seven are open. Are you ready?  I'll do whatever it takes. First we will open the Earth Chakra, located at the base of the spine. It deals with survival, and is blocked by fear. What are you most afraid of? Let your fears become clear to you. Aang, your vision is not real. You are concerned for your survival, but you must surrender those fears. Let your fears flow down the creek. You have opened your Earth Chakra!  Next is the ... Water Chakra? Brilliant! Maybe one day you will be a guru too! This chakra deals with pleasure and is blocked by guilt. Now, look at all the guilt with burdens you so. What do you blame yourself for?  I ran away. I hurt all of those people. Accept the reality that these things happened, but do not let them cloud and poison your energy. If you are to be a positive influence on the world, you need to forgive yourself.  This bay leads directly to the outskirts of Ba Sing Se. We've been using these tangle mines to stop the Fire Nation ships from getting through.  Your father invented tangle mines himself. Destructive? Buoyant? And ... Aggh, ehhh! Terrible smelling! Very perceptive. The mines are filled with skunk fish and seaweed. When a ship detonates the mine, the seaweed tangles up the propeller and the foul smell forces people to abandon the ship. I call it the "stink and sink."  Good one, Dad!  You're definitely your father's son.  Hakoda, our scouts have spotted four Fire Nation ships! Bato, get these mines loaded up! The rest of you men, prepare for battle! Uhhh ... what should I do, Dad? Aren't you listening? I said, "The rest of you men, get ready for battle". Who thought when we came to this city as refugees, that I'd end up owning my own tea shop? Follow your passion, Zuko, and life will reward you. Congratulations, Uncle. I am very thankful. You deserve it. The Jasmine Dragon will be the best tea shop in the city. No. I'm thankful because you decided to share this special day with me. It means more than you know.  Now let's make these people some tea!   Yes, let's make some tea! Third is the Fire Chakra, located in the stomach.  My Fire Chakra would like to eat something other than onion-banana juice.  Good one! Moving on. This chakra deals with willpower, and is blocked by shame. What are you ashamed of? What are your biggest disappointments in yourself? I'm never going to firebend again. I can't. You will never find balance if you deny this part of your life. You are the Avatar and therefore, you are a firebender. Hmmm ... that chakra opened less like a flowing creek, and more like a ... burping bison.  Tastes like onions and bananas, but strangely something else. Pickles?   I'm tired of wearing this girly disguise. I don't know how anyone could fight in this. Maybe that's why it was so easy to beat the Kyoshi Warriors and take their clothes.  How much longer do we have to serve the Earth King? If I have to clean up one more pile of bear poop, I'm going to throw up.  Princess Azula promised we would go back to the Fire Nation as soon as we captured the Avatar. We just have to be patient.  Shush up! Do you want the whole palace to know we're Fire Nation? Sorry! Good work, girls. I'm sure the Dai Li will deliver the message. The fourth chakra is located in the heart. It deals with love and is blocked by grief. Lay all your grief out in front of you. You have indeed felt a great loss. But love is a form of energy, and it swirls all around us. The Air Nomads' love for you has not left this world. It is still inside of your heart, and is reborn in the form of new love. Let the pain flow away. Very good.  Can I have some onion-banana juice, please? The fifth in the chain is the Sound Chakra, located in the throat. It deals with truth and is blocked by lies. The ones we tell ourselves. Why didn't you tell us you were the Avatar? Because I never wanted to be. You cannot lie about your own nature. You must accept that you are the Avatar. Very good, Aang. You have opened the chakra of truth. The sixth pool of energy is the light chakra, located in the center of the forehead. It deals with insight and is blocked by illusion. The greatest illusion of this world is the illusion of separation. Things you think are separate and different are actually one in the same.  Like the four nations.  Yes. We are all one people, but we live as if divided. We're all connected. Everything is connected. That's right! Even the separation of the four elements is an illusion. If you open your mind, you will see that all the elements are one. Four parts of the same whole. Even metal is just a part of earth that has been purified and refined.  Come on, metal. Budge! Wooo! Toph, you rule. What do you say, Momo? A cup of tea before we get back to the king? Table for two, please. Uncle! I need two jasmine, one green, and one lychee! I'm brewing as fast as I can! This is the last chakra, isn't it? Yes. Once you open this chakra, you will be able to go in and out of the Avatar State at will and when you are in the Avatar State, you will have complete control and awareness of all your actions.  Let's do this. The Thought Chakra is located at the crown of the head. It deals with pure cosmic energy, and is blocked by earthly attachment. Meditate on what attaches you to this world. Now, let all of those attachments go. Let them flow down the river, forgotten.  What? Why would I let go of Katara? I ... I love her! Learn to let her go, or you cannot let the pure cosmic energy flow in from the universe. Why would I choose cosmic energy over Katara? How could it be a bad thing that I feel an attachment to her? Three chakras ago that was a good thing! You must learn to let go.  Thank goodness you're here, Suki. Something terrible is going on. The Fire Nation has infiltrated the city, I just saw Prince Zuko and his uncle! We have to tell the Earth King right away! Oh, don't worry, I'll be sure to let him know.  So, Zuzu's in the city, too? I think it's time for a family reunion.  I'm sorry, but I can't let go of Katara. Aang, to master the Avatar State, you must open all the chakras. Surrender yourself. Okay, I'll try. Now think of your attachments and let them go. Let the pure cosmic energy flow. Katara's in danger! I have to go!  No, Aang! By choosing attachment, you have locked the chakra! If you leave now, you won't be able to go into the Avatar State at all! It's another one her tricks! There's a giant hole in the box! How is that a trick!?  It's not! It's the real deal!  I am the greatest earthbender in the world! Don't you two dunderheads ever forget it!   I'm going to be stuck in here forever with you, aren't I? I have to go the bathroom.  Ready to go knock some Fire Nation heads? You don't know how much this means to me, Dad. I'll make you proud and I'll finally prove to you what a great warrior I am.  Sokka, you don't have to prove anything to me. I'm already proud of you and I've always known you're a great warrior. Really? Why do you think I trusted you to look after our tribe when I left? This can't be good news. What is this about? Your agents show up in the middle of the night and drag me down here? You will not treat a Kyoshi Warrior this way! But you're not a Kyoshi Warrior, are you, Princess Azula of the Fire Nation? What do you want? I want to make a deal. It's time that I regain control of Ba Sing Se and you have something I need. Oh? The Earth King's trust. Why should I help you? Because I can get you the Avatar.  I'm listening ... A message from the Royal Palace.  I ... I can't believe it! What is it, Uncle?  Great news! We've been invited to serve tea to the Earth King!  Who's there?!  I think I see a cave below.  Sh! Keep quiet! Great job with the cloud camo, but next time, let's disguise ourselves as the kind of cloud that knows how to keep its mouth shut.   Yeah, we wouldn't want a bird to hear us chatting up there and turn us in.  Hey, we're in enemy territory. Those are enemy birds. Well, this is it. This is how we'll be living until the invasion begins. Hiding in cave after cave after cave after cave ...  Sokka, we don't need to become cave people. What we need is some new clothes. Yeah, blending in is better than hiding out. If we get Fire Nation disguises, we would be just as safe as we would be hiding in a cave.  Plus, they have real food out there. Does anyone want to sit in the dirt and eat cave hoppers? Looks like we got outvoted, sport. Let's get some new clothes.  I don't know about this. These clothes belong to somebody. I call the silk robe!  But if it's essential to our survival ... then I call the suit!   Ta-dah! Normal kid. Hm ... I should probably wear shoes. But then I won't be able to see as well. Sorry, shoes! Finally, a stylish shoe for the blind earthbender.  How do I look?   Uh ... your mom's necklace. Oh, oh, yeah. I guess it's pretty obviously Water Tribe, isn't it?  I used to visit my friend Kuzon here a hundred years ago. So, everyone just follow my lead and stay cool. Or, as they say in the Fire Nation, "stay flamin'". Greetings, my good hotman.  Uh, hi. I guess ...  Oh, we're going to a meat place? Come on, Aang, everyone here eats meat. Even the meat!  You guys go ahead. I'll just get some lettuce out of the garbage. Hotman. Hotman. Hotman. Hotman. Hotman. Hotman. It's over. We caught you.  Who, me? It couldn't be more obvious that you don't belong here. Next time you play hooky, you might wanna take off your school uniform. Oh. Is this a new mind ready for molding? That's right. Let the molding begin.  Wait a minute. You're not from the Fire Nation. Clearly you're from the colonies. Yeah, the colonies, of course. The Fire Nation colonies in the Earth Kingdom.  Your etiquette is terrible. In the homeland, we bow to our elders. Like so.  Sorry, ma'am. And we don't wear head coverings indoors. Um ... I have a scar. It's really embarrassing. Very well. What is your name? Or should we just call you "Mannerless Colony Slob"?  Just "slob" is fine. Or, uh, Kuzon. .] [ We made it through the day Momo, and it was pretty fun.  Don't let the headmaster catch you with that monkey.   What monkey? Don't worry, I'm not a tattletale. My name's On Ji. I like your headband, by the way.  On Ji, you don't have to baby-sit the new kid. Wow. You must be one of those popular kids I've been hearing about. That's right. Now listen, friend. I know you're from the colonies, so I'll say this slowly. On Ji is my girlfriend. Don't forget it.  It was nice meeting you.  I don't believe it, he didn't beat you up. Not even a little. I guess I'm just lucky. We were on our way to play hide and explode. You wanna come? I'd love to.  Where have you been? We've been worried sick.  I got invited to play with some kids after school.  After what?! I enrolled in a Fire Nation school, and I'm going back tomorrow.  Enrolled in what?!   You again? Stop where you are! Prince Zuko ... I'm going in for a visit. You're going to stand guard here, and is going to know about this. Uncle, it's me.  Aang, I'm trying to be mature and not immediately shoot down your idea, but it sounds ... really terrible. Yeah, we got our outfits. What do you need to go to school for? Every minute I'm in that classroom, I'm learning new things about the Fire Nation. I already have a picture of Fire Lord Ozai. And here's one that I made out of noodles!  Impressive, I admit, but I still think it's too dangerous. I guess we'll never find out about the secret river then. It goes right to the Fire Lord's palace. We were supposed to learn about it in class tomorrow. Hmm, I am a fan of secret rivers ... fine, let's stay a few more days. Flamey-O, Hotman!   Flamey-O? You brought this on yourself, you know. We could have returned together. You could have been a hero! You have no right to judge me, Uncle. I did what I had to do in Ba Sing Se, and you're a fool for not joining me. You're not going to say anything? You're a crazy old man! You're crazy! And if you weren't in jail, you'd be sleeping in a gutter!  Good morning class. Recite the Fire Nation oath.   My life I give to my country, with my hands I fight for Fire Lord Ozai and our forefathers before him.  Fire Lord ... forefathers ... With my mind I seek ways to better my country, and with my feet may our March of Civilization continue. Firebenders ... Fire Lord ... wah, bah, blah, blah.  Since it's obviously hilarious to mock our national oath, we'll begin with a pop quiz on our great March of Civilization. Question one: What year did Fire Lord Sozin battle the Air Nation army? Kuzon? Is that a trick question? The Air Nomads didn't have a formal military. Sozin defeated them by ambush.  Well, I don't know how you could possibly know more than our national history book. Unless you were there a hundred years ago. I'll just write down my best guess. Kuzon?  I know, I'm a terrible tsungi hornist. No, child. That hullabaloo going on with your feet. Is that a nervous disorder? I was just dancing. You do dances here in the homeland, right? Not really, no. Dancing is not conducive to a proper learning environment. Young people must have rigid discipline and order. But what about expressing yourself? I know sometimes we're so ruled by our love for our nation that we can't control our own bodies. If you must, you may march in place quietly next time the urge hits you.  Uh, hi, Kuzon. I really liked that crazy dance you were doing. Thanks On Ji. I could show it to you again if you like. Ah!  What'd you say, colony trash? You're gonna show her something?  Just some dance movements. Nobody shows my On Ji anything, especially movements!  Picking fights on your second day? We need to have a conference to discuss your punishment. Bring your parents to my office after school.  Parents? But- Don't be late! Thank you for coming, Mr. and Mrs ...   Fire. Wang Fire. This is my wife, Sapphire. Sapphire Fire. Nice to meet you. Mr. and Mrs ... Fire, your son has been enrolled here for two days and he's already causing problems. He's argued with his history teacher, disrupted music class, and roughed up my star pupil. My goodness! That doesn't sound like our Kuzon. That's what any mother would say, Ma'am. Nonetheless, you're forewarned; if he acts up one more time, I'll have him sent to reform school- by which I mean the coal mines. Are we clear? Don't you worry, Mr. Headmaster. I'll straighten this boy out somethin' fierce! Young man, as soon as we get home you're gonna get the punishment of a lifetime!  That's what I like to hear. Orange is such an awful color.  You're so beautiful when you hate the world. I don't hate you. I don't hate you too.  Ahem. Zuko, could I have a word with you? Can't you see we're busy?  Oh Mai, Ty Lee needs your help untangling her braid.  Sounds pretty serious.  So, I've heard you've been to visit your uncle fatso in the prison tower.  That guard told you. No. You did. Just now.  Okay, you caught me. What is it that you want, Azula? Actually, nothing. Believe it or not, I'm looking out for you. If people find out you've been to see Uncle, they'll think you're plotting with him. Just be careful, Dum-Dum.  That settles it! No more school for you, young man!  I'm not ready to leave yet. I'm having fun for once, just being a normal kid. You don't know what it's like, Sokka. You get to be normal all the time. Ha ha!  Listen guys, those kids at school are the future of the Fire Nation. If we want to change this place for the better, we need to show them a little taste of freedom. What could you possibly do for a country of depraved little fire monsters? I'm gonna throw them, a secret dance party!   Go to your room!  I can't believe we're having a dance party. It seems so ... silly. Don't think of it as a dance party, but as a cultural event celebrating the art of fancy footwork!   They're coming! Everyone stop bending.  Sorry buddy, you should probably wait out back. I know, you got fancier feet than anybody. And six of 'em!   Ladies and gentlemen, the Flamey-O's! Yeah, this ought to get everybody moving.  Now what do we do? This is when you start dancing.  I don't think my parents want me dancing in a cave ...  Yeah! What if someone finds out?!  Oh boy. Listen guys, dancing isn't something you think about. It's a form of self-expression that no one can ever take away from you. Maybe it was different in the colonies, Kuzon, but we don't do that here. Sure you do, you have for generations! It just so happens that I know several classic Fire Nation dances. A hundred years ago, this was known as the 'Phoenix Flight'. And, this was the 'Camelephant Strut'.  Who knew Twinkle Toes could dance?  I brought you some komodo chicken. I know you don't care for it, but I figure it beats prison food. I admit it, I have everything I always wanted, but it's not as all how I thought it would be. The truth is, I need your advice. I think the Avatar is still alive, I know he's out there, I'm losing my mind. Please, Uncle, I'm so confused I need your help. Forget it, I'll solve it myself! Waste away in here for all I care!  And this is how they do it in the ballrooms of Ba Sing Se.   Wow, they look pretty good together.  Eh, if that's what you like ...  Yeah, that's it! That's the sound of happy feet. All right, go with that! Everybody freestyle!  I don't know, Aang. These shoes aren't really right for dancing, and I-I'm not sure that I know how to-  Take my hand.  Okay.  Aang, everyone's watching. Don't worry about them. It's just you and me right now. It is a dancing party. You did the right thing by telling me, Hide.  Anytime, Headmaster sir.  This is incredible! It's like my inhibitions just disappear! Okay, they're back again.  He's the one we want! The boy with the headband! Uh-oh.  Gotcha!  Looking for me? That's not the one. He's here somewhere. Don't let him leave the cave! Yes?  Hi there. How're we doing? Looking for someone? Who are you looking for? Do you need something? Over here.  Stop that! Stop that! We're safe Sokka, you can take off the mustache, now.  Oh, no, I can't. It's permanently glued to my skin.  Way to go, dancy pants. I think you really did help those kids, you taught them to be free. I don't know, it was just a dance party, that's all. Well, that was some dance party Aang.   Flamey-O, sir ... Flamey-O. You're sure you weren't followed? I've heard about you. They say you're good at what you do, and even better at keeping secrets. The Avatar is alive. I want you to find him, and end him. The Earth Kingdom city of Omashu! I used to always come here to visit my friend Bumi.  Wow. We don't have buildings like this in the South Pole!  They have buildings here that don't melt!  Well let's go, slow pokes. The real fun's inside the city!  Wait, Aang! It could be dangerous if people find out you're the Avatar.  You need a disguise.  So what am I supposed to do? Grow a mustache?  Ugh. This is so itchy. How do you live in this stuff? Great! Now you look just like my grandfather.  Technically, Aang is 112 years old.  Now let's get to skippin', young whipper-snappers. The big city awaits! You guys are going to love Omashu. The people here are the friendliest in the world.  Rotten cabbages?! What kind of slum do you think this is?!  No! My cabbages!  Just keep smiling!  State your business!  My business is my business, young man, and none of yours! I've got half a mind to bend you over my knee and paddle your backside!  Settle down, old timer! Just tell me who you are.  Name's Bonzu Pippinpaddleopsicopolis, the Third, and these are my grandkids.  Hi. June Pippinpaddleopsicopolis. Nice to meet you.  You seem like a responsible young lady. See that your grandfather stays out of trouble. Enjoy Omashu!  We will!  Wait a minute! You're a strong young boy! Show some respect for the elderly and carry your grandfather's bag!  Good idea!  This is the Omashu delivery system. Miles and miles of tubes and chutes.  Earthbending brings the packages up, and gravity brings them down.  Great, so they get their mail on time.  They do get their mail on time, but my friend Bumi found a better use for these chutes.  Look around you! What do you see?  Um ... The mail system?  Instead of seeing what they want you to see, you got to open your brain to the possibilities.  A package-sending system?  The world's greatest superslide!  Bumi, you're a mad genius!  One ride. Then we're off to the North Pole. Airbender's honor.  It sounded like fun at first, but now that I'm here, I'm starting to have second th-o-o-oughts!  I'm on it! Men, you'll be going off to combat soon. It's important that you be prepared for anything.  Aang, do something! Use your airbending!  Yeah! Good idea! That'll make us go even faster! Sorry!  My cabbages! You're gonna pay for this!  Two cabbages please. Your majesty, these juveniles were arrested for vandalism, traveling under false pretenses, and malicious destruction of cabbages.  Off with their heads! One for each head of cabbage!  Silence! Only the king can pass down judgment. What is your judgment, sire?  Throw them ... a feast!  The people in my city have gotten fat from too many feasts, so I hope you like your chicken with no skin. Thanks, but I don't eat meat.  How about you? I bet you like meat.  Is it just me, or is this guy's crown a little crooked?  So tell me, young bald one, where are you from?  I'm from ... Kangaroo Island!  Oh, Kangaroo Island, eh? I hear that place is really hopping!  What? It was pretty funny.  Well, all these good jokes are making me tired. Guess it's time to hit the hay.  There's an airbender in our presence, and not just any airbender. The Avatar!  Now, what do you have to say for yourself, Mr. Pippinpaddleopsicopolis?  Okay, you caught me. I'm the Avatar. Doing my Avatar thing, keeping the world safe. Everything checks out. No firebenders here. So, good work, everybody! Love each other, respect all life, and don't run with your spears. We'll see you next time!  You can't keep us here! Let us leave! Lettuce leaf?  We're in serious trouble. This guy is   Tomorrow, the Avatar will face three deadly challenges. But for now, the guards will show you to your chamber.  My liege, do you mean the good chamber or the bad chamber?  The newly refurbished chamber.  Wait, which one are we talking about? The one that used to be the bad chamber, until the recent refurbishing, that is. Of course, we've been calling it the new chamber, but we really should number them. Uh, take them to the refurbished chamber that was once bad! This is a prison cell? But it's so nice.  He did say it was newly refurbished. Nice or not, we're prisoners!  I wonder what these challenges are gonna to be.  We're not sticking around to find out. There's got to be some way out of here.  The air vents!  If you think we're going to fit through there, you're crazier than that king.  We can't, but Momo can!  Momo, I need you to find Appa and bust us outta here! Go on, boy, get Appa! Eh, how was Appa supposed to save us anyway?  Appa's a ten-ton flying bison; I think he could figure something out.  Well, no point arguing about it now. Get some rest, Aang. Looks like you'll need it for tomorrow.  Sokka? Katara? Where are my friends?  The king will free them if you complete your challenges.  And if I fail?  He didn't say. Your staff, please?  First, Avatar, what do you think of my new outfit? I want your honest opinion. I'm waiting.  I ... guess it's fine. Excellent! You passed the first test. Really?  Well, not one of the deadly tests. The real challenges are much more, uh, challenging.  I don't have time for your crazy games! Give me my friends back! We're leaving! Oh, I thought you might refuse, so I will give your friends some special souvenirs.  Those delightful rings are made of pure jennamite, also known as creeping crystal. It's a crystal that grows remarkably fast. By nightfall your friends will be completely covered in it. Terrible thing, really. I can stop it, but only if you cooperate.  Ah! It's already creeping!  I'll do what you want. It seems I've lost my lunch box key and I'm hungry. Ooh, there it is! Would you mind fetching it for me?  Ooh, climbing the ladder. No one's thought of that before. That's right. Keep diving head in. I'm sure it'll work eventually. There! Enjoy your lunch! I want my friends back now! Ah, not yet. I need help with another matter. It seems I've lost my pet, Flopsie. Okay! Found him! Bring him to me. Daddy wants a kiss from Flopsie! Come here, Flopsie. Huh? Flopsie, wait! Flopsie! Flopsie! Wait a minute. Flopsie? Flopsie!  Oh, that's a good boy. Yes, who has a soft belly?  Guys, are you okay? Other than the crystals slowly encasing my entire body, doing great!  Oh, yes. Come on! I'm ready for the next challenge. Your final test is a duel. And as a special treat, you may choose your opponent. Point and choose. So ... you're saying whoever I point to, that's the person I get to fight? Choose wisely! I ... choose ... you.  Wrong choice! You thought I was a frail old man, but I'm the most powerful earthbender you'll ever see. Can I fight the guy with the axe instead? There are no take-backsies in my kingdom. You might need this.  Typical airbender tactic: avoid and evade. I hoped the Avatar would be less predictable. Don't you have any surprises for me? Sooner or later you'll have to strike back! You'll have to be a little more creative than that! Did someone leave the windows open? It feels a little drafty in here. Are you hoping I'll catch a cold? How are you going to get me from way over there? Well done, Avatar. You fight with much fire in your heart. You've passed all my tests. Now, you must answer one question. That's not fair! You said you would release my friends if I finished your tests. Oh, but what's the point of tests if you don't learn anything? Oh, come on! Answer this one question and I will set your friends free. What ... is my name? From the looks of your friends I'd say you only have a few minutes. How am I supposed to know his name? Think about the challenges. Maybe it's some kind of riddle. I got it! Yeah? He's an earthbender, right? Rocky. You know, because of all the rocks. We're going to keep trying, but that is a good back-up. Okay. So back to the challenges. I got a key from the waterfall, I saved his pet, and I had a duel. And what did you learn? Well, everything was different than I expected.  And? Well, they weren't straight forward. To solve each test, I had to think differently than I usually would. I know his name. I solved the question the same way I solved the challenges. As you said a long time ago, I had to open my brain to the possibilities. Bumi, you're a mad genius. Oh Aang, it's good to see you. You haven't changed a bit. Literally. Uh, over here! Little help? Jennamite is made of rock candy. Delicious! So this crazy king is your old friend Bumi? Who are you calling old? Okay, I'm old. Why did you do all of this instead of just telling Aang who you were? First of all, it's pretty fun messing with people. But I do have a reason. Aang, you have a difficult task ahead. The world has changed in the hundred years that you've been gone. It's the duty of the Avatar to restore balance to the world by defeating Fire Lord Ozai. You have much to learn. You must master the four elements and confront the Fire Lord. And when you do, I hope you will think like a mad genius. And it looks like you're in good hands. You'll need your friends to help defeat the Fire Nation. And you'll need Momo, too. Thank you for your wisdom, but before we leave, I have a challenge for you. My cabbages! What's out here?  A lot, actually. There's hundreds of little ...  Shh! I know you can see underground, but don't ruin the surprise. Just watch. Yeah! I'm putting an orchestra together.  Orchestra, huh? Well, la-di-da.  This is great and all, but don't we have more important things to worry about? We should be making plans. We did make plans. We're all picking mini-vacations. There's no time for vacations. I'm learning the elements as fast as I can. I practice hard every day with Toph and Katara. I've been training my arrow off!  Yeah, what's wrong with having a little fun in our down time? Even if you do master all of the elements, then what? It's not like we have a map of the Fire Nation. Should we just head west until we reach the Fire Lord's house? Knock, knock. Hello, Fire Lord? Anybody home? I don't think so. We need some intelligence if we're going to win this war.  All right, we'll finish our vacations and then we'll look for Sokka's intelligence.   Your turn, Katara. Where would you like to go on your mini-vacation?  How about the Misty Palms Oasis? That sounds refreshing. Oh, yeah, I've been there. It's a pristine natural ice spring. And I usually don't use the word "pristine". It's one of nature's wonders. Must've changed ownership since I was here.   One mango, please. I don't see anything wrong with having one of those fruity beverages while we plan our strategy. Excuse me. No worries, I clean up easy.   You're a living relic.  Thanks, I try. An Air Nomad, right in front of me. Professor Zei, head of anthropology at Ba Sing Se University. Tell me, which of the air temples do you hail from? The Southern Temple.  Oh, splendid! Now tell me- what was the primary agricultural product of your people?  Uh, are fruit pies an agricultural product? Oh, truly fascinating. That is one for the journal.  So Professor, you're obviously a well-traveled guy. Do you have a more current map? Ours seems to be a little dated. Certainly. What, no Fire Nation? Doesn't anybody have a good map of that place?  You've made a lot of trips into the desert. All in vain, I'm afraid. I've found lost civilizations all over the Earth Kingdom, but I haven't managed to find the crown jewel: Wan Shi Tong's Library.   You spent years walking through the desert to find some guy's library? This library is more valuable than gold, little lady. It is said to contain a vast collection of knowledge, and knowledge is priceless.  Hmm, sounds like good times. Oh, it is. According to legend, it was built by the great Knowledge Spirit, Wan Shi Tong, with the help of his "foxy" knowledge seekers.  Oh, so this spirit has attractive assistants, huh?  I think he means they look like actual foxes, Sokka. You're both right. Handsome little creatures. Wan Shi Tong and his knowledge seekers collected books from all over the world, and put them on display for mankind to read, so that we might better ourselves. If this place has books from all over the world, do you think they've got info on the Fire Nation? A map, maybe? I wouldn't know. But if such a thing exists, it's in Wan Shi Tong's Library. Then it's settled. Aang, I do believe it's my turn. I'd like to spend my vacation at the library!   Uh, hey, what about me? When do I get to pick? You gotta work here a little longer before you qualify for vacation time. Hmph!  Of course, there's the matter of finding it. I've made several trips into the Si Wong Desert and almost died each time. I'm afraid that desert's impossible to cross. Professor, would you like to see our sky bison? A sky bison?! You actually have one?  Sandbenders, shoo, away from the bison! Tell me, sky bison, are you the last of your breed? Delightful! I only wish I spoke his tongue. Oh, the stories this beast could tell. Shush, chatty monkey.  Wow, shouldn't be too hard to find a place like this out here.  Does this place even exist? Some say it doesn't.  Shouldn't you have mentioned that before?   There it is! That's what it will sound like when one of you spots it.  It shouldn't be this hard to spot a giant, ornate building from the air.  Down there, what's that?  Forget it. It's obviously not what we're looking for. The building in this drawing is enormous.  What kind of animal is that? I think that was one of the Knowledge Seekers. Oh, we must be close to the library!  No, this is the library- look! It's completely buried.  The library is buried?! My life's ambition is now full of sand. Well, time to start excavating.   Actually, that won't be necessary. The inside seems to be completely intact. And it's huge. That fox thingy went in through a window. I say we climb up there and give it a look. I say you guys go ahead without me. You got something against libraries? I've held books before. And I gotta tell you, they don't exactly do it for me.  Oh, right. Sorry. Let me know if they have something you can listen to.  Don't worry, buddy. I'm not making you go underground ever again. You can stay out here with Toph.   What's up? Oh, it's breathtaking! The spirit spared no expense in designing this place. Look at those beautiful buttresses! What's funny? Nothing. We just like architecture.  As do I. My word! The exquisite mosaic handiwork of this tile-rendered avian symbol ... Eh, nice owl.  I know you're back there.  Hello, I'm Professor Zei, head of anthropology at Ba Sing Se University. You should leave the way you came. Unless you want to become a stuffed head of anthropology. Are you the spirit who brought this library to the physical world? Indeed, I am Wan Shi Tong, "He Who Knows Ten Thousand Things." And you are obviously humans, which, by the way, are no longer permitted in my study. What do you have against humans? Hm! Humans only bother learning things to get the edge on other humans. Like that firebender who came to this place a few years ago, looking to destroy his enemy. So ... who are you trying to destroy?  What? No-no-no-no destroying. We're not into that.  Then why have you come here? Um ... knowledge for knowledge's sake?  If you're going to lie to an all-knowing spirit being, you should at least put some effort into it. I'm not lying, I'm here with the Avatar, and he's the bridge between our worlds. He'll vouch for me.  Ow. Uh, yeah, I'll vouch. We will not abuse the knowledge in your library, good spirit. You have my word.  Hmm, very well. I'll let you peruse my vast collection on one condition. To prove your worth as scholars, you have to contribute some worthwhile knowledge.  Please accept this tome as a donation to your library.  First edition, very nice.   I have an authentic waterbending scroll.  Ooh, these illustrations are quite stylish.   Uh ... oh, I know! Hah! I suppose that counts.   Oh, great spirit, check this out. Ta-da! It's a special knot. That counts as knowledge!  You're not very bright, are you? Enjoy the library.   Bright enough to fool you.  So ... you like ... flying? Of course, I'm more comfortable on the ground where I can see. Well, I don't see the way you do. I feel the vibrations in the ground with my feet. But this sand is so loose and shifty, it makes everything look fuzzy. Not that there's anything wrong with fuzzy.   Hey, look at these weird lion turtle things.  Eh, I've seen weirder.  Aang, did you know in a past life, you were left-handed? I always knew I was special.  "The darkest day in Fire Nation history." It's got a date at the top, but it doesn't say anything else.   Sokka, where are you going?  I want to know what happened to the Fire Nation on their darkest day. This could be promising. The information on the Fire Nation should be right up here.  Firebenders. They destroyed everything having to do with the Fire Nation. That's so unfair! Just when I think I'm one step ahead of the Fire Nation, it turns out they beat us here a long time ago. I need to know what happened on the darkest day. Hello, little weird fox guy. Seems it's trying to assist you. Um, sure, I guess I'll follow you. This room is a true marvel, a mechanical wonder. It's a planetarium that shows the heavens moving. Uh, this is beautiful, but how is it helpful? Maybe these dials represent dates and times. Sokka, try entering that date from that parchment you took.  Shh, Katara, not in front of the fox, he's with the owl. Wow, I got to hand it to you, Sokka. You picked the best mini-vacation for sure. Hey, wait. What happened to the sun?  Great, you must have broken it.  It's not broken. The sun is behind the moon. It's a solar eclipse! It's literally the darkest day in Fire Nation history. Now I get it. Something awful happened on that day. I don't know what, but I do know why. Firebenders lose their bending during a solar eclipse. Sorry. That makes sense. I mean, think what the lunar eclipse at the North Pole did to the waterbenders. This is huge.  Fine, you earned it. We've gotta get this information to the Earth King at Ba Sing Se. We'll wait for the next eclipse, then we'll invade the Fire Nation when they're totally helpless. The Fire Lord is going down!  Mortals are so predictable, and such terrible liars. You betrayed my trust. From the beginning, you intended to misuse this knowledge for evil purposes. You don't understand. If anyone's evil, it's the Fire Nation. You saw what they did to your library. They're destructive and dangerous. We need this information. You think you're the first person to believe their war was justified? Countless others before you have come here seeking weapons or weaknesses or battle strategies. We had no choice. Please, we're just desperate to protect the people we love. And now I'm going to protect what I love.  What are you doing? I'm taking my knowledge back. No one will ever abuse it again.  He's sinking the building. We've gotta get out of here. I'm afraid I can't allow that. You already know too much.  I already told you, I don't wanna snuggle. Library sinking. Library sinking! Hi-yah!   Great Knowledge Spirit, I beg you, do not destroy your vast collection of priceless tomes.  We've gotta get back to the surface! Sokka, let's go. But we still don't know when the next eclipse is gonna to happen. Don't be stupid! We'll find out later! No, we won't. If we leave this place, we'll never get the information. Aang, come with me to the planetarium, I need cover. Katara, take Momo and get out of here! But ...! Go! Hurry, Sokka! What is it now?  Who's there? Why are we doing this? Because if this calendar can tell us about eclipses in the past, then maybe it can project when the next one will be. You can't possibly check every single date.  I don't have to. We just need to check every date before Sozin's Comet arrives. Because after that- well, try not to think about that.  Come on, eclipse. That's it! The solar eclipse! It's just a few months away. Got it. Now, let's get to Ba Sing Se. Don't make me put this down. No! Stop sinking! No! I'm sorry, Appa.  At least I'll have one specimen to add to my collection. Your waterbending won't do you much good here. I've studied Northern water style, Southern water style, even Foggy Swamp style. That's called Sokka style. Learn it. Wait! Professor, let's go.  I'm not leaving. I can't. I've spent too long trying to find this place. There's not another collection of knowledge like this on earth. I could spend an eternity in here.  Just go! We got it. There's a solar eclipse coming. The Fire Nation's in trouble now!  Where's Appa?  So, travelers. The next time you think you hear a strange, large bird talking, take a closer look. It might not be a giant parrot, but a flying man. A member of a secret group of air walkers, who laugh at gravity, and laugh at those bound to the earth by it!  Aren't airbender stories the greatest?   Was it realistic? Is that how it was back then? I laugh at gravity all the time. Gravity.  Jingle, jingle!  Sorry ...  Aww, cheapskates!   Hey! Thanks for the story.  Tell it to the cap,  Aww, much obliged, little bat-thing.   It means a lot to hear airbender stories. It must have been a hundred years ago your great grandpa met them.  What are you prattling about, child? Great Grandpappy saw the air walkers last week.   Hey, we're almost at the Northern Air Temple. This is where they had the championships for Sky Bison polo.  Do you think we'll really find airbenders?  You want me to be like you, or totally honest?  Are you saying I'm a liar?  I'm saying you're an optimist. Same thing, basically.  Hey, guys, look at this!  They really are airbenders!  No, they're not.  What do you mean "they're not"? Those guys are flying!  Gliding maybe, but not flying. You can tell by the way they move, they're not airbending. Those people have no spirit. I don't know, Aang. That kid seemed pretty spirited.  We better find some solid ground, before it finds us.   Go Teo! Show that bald kid how it's done!  Hey there, you're pretty good!  Yeah, I know. But I can do more than fancy gliding.  Wow, I don't think I can do that. But here's a good one. What do you think?  It's great. Hey, you're a real airbender. You must be the Avatar! That's amazing! I-I've heard stories about you!  Thanks.  Wow! This glider chair is incredible! You think this is good, wait until you see the other stuff my dad designed. Wow!  Yeah, my dad is the mastermind behind this whole place. Everything's powered by hot air. It even pumps hot air currents outside to give us a lift while we're gliding.  This place is unbelievable. Yeah, it's great, isn't it? No, just unbelievable.   Aang used to come here a long time ago. I think he's a little shocked it's so ... different. So better! This is supposed to be the history of my people. Ugh!  I'm sure some parts of the temple are still the same. It's nice to see that at least one part of the temple that isn't ruined.  Look out! What the doodle? Don't you know enough to stay away from construction sites? We have to make room for the bathhouse!   Do you know what you did!? You just destroyed something sacred! For a stupid bathhouse! Well, people around here are starting to stink.   This whole place stinks!  This is a sacred temple! You can't treat it this way! I've seen it when the monks were here! I know what it's supposed to be like! The monks? But, you're twelve.  Dad, he's the Avatar. He used to come here a hundred years ago. What are you doing? Who said you could be here?  Hmm, doing here ... A long time ago, but not a hundred years, my people became refugees after a terrible flood. My infant son, Teo, was badly hurt and lost his mother. I needed somewhere to rebuild and I stumbled across this place. Couldn't believe it! Everywhere! Pictures of flying people! But empty, nobody home. Then, I came across these fan-like contraptions! Our gliders. Yes! Little, light flying machines! They gave me an idea. Build a new life for my son, in the air! Then everyone will be on equal ground! So to speak. We're just in the process of improving upon what's already here. And, after all, isn't that what nature does? Nature knows where to stop. I suppose that's true. Unfortunately, progress has a way of getting away from us. Look at the time! Come! The pulley system must be oiled before dark. Wait, how can you tell the time from that thing? The notches all look the same. The candle will tell us. Watch.  You put spark powder in the candle! Four flashes. So it's exactly four hours past mid-day. Or, as I call it: four o'candle. If you like that, wait till you see my finger-safe knife sharpener. Only took me three tries to get it right.   Aaah!  Follow me!  Hey, Aang. I want to show you something. I just can't get over it. There's not a single thing that's the same. I don't know about that. The temple might be different but the creatures that live here are probably direct descendants of the ones who lived here a long time ago.  You're right. They're kind of keepers of the temple's origins.  Besides, there's one part of the temple that hasn't changed at all. Hey, it's just like the one in the other temple!  Only an airbender can open it, so inside it's completely untouched. Just the way the monks left it. I've always wondered what it's like in there ...  Aang?  I'm sorry. This is the last part of the temple that's the same as it was. I want it to stay that way.  I completely understand. I just wanted you to know that it's here. Thanks.  These lanterns are terrible. I can't see! Why would you want to use fireflies for light?  Hey! Close that up! They'll get loose! Fireflies are a non-flammable light source.  Cover your nose and hold your breath.   Okay ... so you brought me all the way down here to see an empty room.  Wrong. It's filled to the brim with natural gas. Came across it my first time here. Unfortunately, I was carrying a torch at the time. Nearly blew my self and the whole place even more sky high! Thought my eyebrows would never grow back. Anyway, there's a vital problem that needs solving. From time to time, we have gas leaks. And they're nearly impossible to find. So, this place is an explosion waiting to happen. Yes, until I figure out how to locate something I can't see, hear, smell, or touch. The wind will carry you. It supports something inside you. Something even lighter than air. And that something takes over when you fly.   I've changed my mind. I think I was born without that something.  Impossible! Everybody has it! Spirit. What? Spirit. That's the something you're talking about.  Yeah, I suppose it is. Are you ready? No! Aaaaah! I can't believe I'm flying! Just make sure you keep your mouth closed so you don't swallow a bug!  Teo was right about the air. All I had to do was trust it, let it carry me. Even though Teo's not an airbender, he really does have the spirit of one! I've been thinking. If you want to see what's in that room, I'd be happy to open the door for you. Great! Wait! How do I land this thing? What if I land over a-ack-ack-bleck! Bug! Bug! Ack, that was a bug! I said don't touch anything! Oh, don't worry. That experiment's old, and that egg was just part of last week's lunch.  Ugh! Week old egg smell! Quick, find that egg!  I can't believe I'm finally going to see what's inside! How can something so small that you can't even see it make such a big stink!? That's the solution to our problem! Yeah ... if we put a whole mess of rotten eggs in the cellar where the gas seeps up ... ... The gas will mix with the smell of rotten eggs! Then, if there's a leak ... ... You smell rotten eggs! Then, you just follow your nose to the place where the smell is coming from ... And plug up the hole where the gas is escaping! You're a genius!  Something's wrong. I've go to go!  This is a nightmare.  You don't understand!  You're making weapons for the Fire Nation!  You make weapons for the Fire Nation?! Explain all this! Now!  It was about a year after we moved here. Fire Nation soldiers found our settlement. You were too young to remember this, Teo. They were going to destroy everything! Burn it to the ground! I pleaded with them, I begged them to spare us! They asked what I had to offer. I offered ... my services. You must understand. I did this for you! When are they coming? Soon. Very soon. You can't give them more weapons. If I don't give them what they want, they will destroy this place!  How can I be proud of you when your inventions are being used for murder? I need some time to think. You need to leave! Go! We're not leaving! Then hide! Quickly!  You know better than to keep me waiting. Give me what you owe us so we can be on our way. Well? Is there a problem?  No, right this way.  The deal's off. The Avatar ... Aang, don't get involved! If I don't get what I came here for, the Fire Nation will burn this place to rubble! Get out of here! You're leaving empty-handed! Then the destruction of this temple will be on your head!  This is bad. Very bad! Aang, what are we going to do? How can we possibly keep them all away? I'll tell you how. We have something they don't. Air power. We control the sky. That's something the Fire Nation can't do. We can win! I want to help.  Good. We'll need it. We finally got the war balloon working, thanks to Sokka. This boy's a genius! Thank you. You're a genius! Thank you!  See, the problem with the old war balloon was you could get it air-borne, but once it did, it just kept going. You could put a hole in the top, but then all the hot air would escape. So the question became, how do you keep a lid on hot air? Ugh, if only we knew.  A lid is actually the answer. If you control the hot air, you control the war balloon. Huh, that's actually pretty smart. Okay, we've got four kinds of bombs: smoke, slime, fire, and ... Stink! Never underestimate the power of stink!  They're coming! Are we ready?  Yes. But where's Sokka with the war balloon?  We'll have to start without it. Take them out of the sky. Now! We've got them on the run! We need more slime! Those things are unstoppable!  I think I know how they work. I remember my dad tinkering with the counterbalancing system. Something to do with water. Works great, huh? Water? Can you get me close to one? No problem! We're out of bombs! Come on Sokka. Where's that war balloon? Hey, why aren't they shooting at us? The insignia! They think we're on their side.  Then I guess they won't see this coming.   Bombs away! Oh no, that was the last one.   Wait a second. You smell that? Rotten eggs! There! That's were the gas is escaping. What are you doing? That's our fuel source. It's the only bomb we've got. Look! They're retreating!   We're going down!  No, Sokka! Hold on!   Get ready! You know what? I'm really glad you guys all live here now. I realized, it's like the hermit crab. Maybe you weren't born here, but you found this empty shell and made it your home. And now you protect each other. That means a lot, coming from you.  Aang you were right about air power. As long as we've got the skies, we'll have the Fire Nation on the run.   This defeat is the gateway to many victories. Momo! Oh Momo! Hahahahaha! You found me, buddy! Hey guys, I think this river's polluted.   Pah! Plegh!  Well that explains why I can't catch a fish around here, because normally my fishing skills are off the hook! Get it? Like a fishing hook?   Too bad your skills aren't on the hook. It looks like we'll need to go somewhere else to get food, assuming that'll fit into Sokka's master schedule. Hmmm ... It's doable. But that means only two potty breaks today. Hey, maybe we can get food there!  Now you look just like a little hill with horns! Bye, buddy! I don't feel anything. Where is the village? It's in the middle of the river!  Sure is! My name's Dock. Mind if I ask who you are? We're um ... from the Earth Kingdom colonies. Wow ... Colonials. Hop on, I give you ride in the town. Why do you guys live on the river?   Because we're a fishing town. At least that's how it was before the factory moved in. Army makes their metal there. Moved in a few years ago and started gunking up our river. Now our little village is struggling to survive. Thanks for the ride!   Look at this place. It's so sad. We have to do something to help. No, we can't waste our time here. We have a bigger mission that we need to stay focused on. These people are on their own.  These people are starving! But you'd turn your back on them? How can you be so cold and heartless?  I'm not turning my back, I'm just being realistic. We can't go around helping every rinky-dink town we wander into. We'll be helping them all by taking out the Fire Lord.   Hey, loud mouths! Maybe we should be a little quieter when we talk about  "taking out the Fire Lord." Come on, Katara, be reasonable about this. You know our mission has to come first.  I guess so.  Let's just get what we need and go.  Hey, Dock. You work here too? I'm not Dock. I'm Xu! Dock's my brother. But we just saw you. You're even wearing the same clothes. The only difference is your hat.  Dock works on the docks. That's why we call him, "Dock", and I work in the shop, that's why they call me, "Xu"! I don't get it. Me neither. What I can getcha? Hey, I'll give you a special deal. If you buy three fish, I'll give you a clam for free.   We'll just take the fish. Mind telling your brother we need a ride back to shore?  Hey, colonials! My brother says you need a lift.  Can you spare some food?  I wish I could help more.  Our detour into town today has completely thrown off our schedule. It's gonna take some serious finagling to get us back on track.  Finagle away, oh schedule master. Well, for starters, it looks like we'll need to wake up forty-three minutes earlier every day. Forty minutes?  Look, we only have a few weeks to get to the Fire Lord in time for the invasion and the eclipse, which, by the way, only lasts for eight minutes. And we just lost a whole day. So if we want to make up the time and stay on schedule, we have to wake up early! Well not waking up early. Or we could just cut out all of our eating breaks. What? No way! Forget it!  I got it, how's this from now on, we'll take food breaks and potty breaks at the same time. Hey, it might be gross, but it's efficient. Either way, we have to leave here first thing tomorrow morning. What's the matter Katara? I think Appa's sick.  What? Appa's sick? That's awful! Wow, Sokka, I didn't realize you cared so much. Of course I care. I might as well just throw our schedule away now. And I'm concerned because my big, furry friend doesn't feel well. He must have gotten sick from being in the polluted water. He doesn't look sick. You okay, buddy? His tongue is purple! That can't be good. Katara, can you heal him? It looks like he needs some medicine. Maybe we can find the right herbs in town. Is it just me, or does this place seem different? Yeah, are the people ... happier? Hey, Xu, what's going on with everyone today?  Ah, something amazing happened last night. Food was delivered to our village by a mysterious and wonderful person ... the Painted Lady. The Painted who now? The Painted Lady. She's part of our town's lore. They say she's a river spirit who watches over our town in times of need. I always thought she was just a legend. Until now. See, we don't need to help these people, they already have someone to help them. All we need is medicine for our sick friend. Medicine? Sorry, all the medicine we have goes to the factory. That's why there's so many sick people in our village. Looks like we need to stay another night so Appa can rest.  I guess you're right. You got any more food to sell?  Would you like the one-headed fish, or the two-headed fish?   Two-headed! What? You get more for your money that way!  Thank you, Painted Lady. Hi, Dock. Is Xu around? Let me check ... Hey there! Back again, are ya?  We need more food. Our friend is still sick and we can't leave until he's better. Oh, well, that's too bad. Maybe if you guys are lucky, the Painted Lady will visit you in the night, and heal your friend.  And maybe she'll cook us a midnight snack, and we'll all have a sing-along.  Yeah, maybe! You know, last night she visited us again. Healed most of our sick folks. Is that why this place seems so festive? Yep, it's all because of the Painted Lady. Can you believe how much an entire village can be affected by one lady I mean ... spirit? Well, I hope she returns every night. Otherwise this place would go right back to the way it was.  Why would you say that? Look how much better off these people are. Yeah, now, but without her they wouldn't be able to fend for themselves. If she really wanted to help, she would use her spirit magic to blow up that factory.  Spirit magic doesn't work that way, Sokka. It's more like ...   Wooooooooo ...  What's the matter, buddy? It's her! Hello, Painted Lady Spirit!  Excuse me, I don't mean to bother you, but my friend's sick and we're on kind of a tight schedule. Wait! But I'm a great bridge between your world and mine! I know Hei Bai! We're close personal friends! Heeey! My name's Aang. I'm the Avatar.   Well, hello Avatar. I wish I could talk, but I am very busy. Yeah, me too. I hate that. You know, you're really pretty, for a spirit. I don't meet too many spirits, but the ones I do meet, not very attractive.   Thank you, but- You seem familiar too. A lot of people say that.  No, you really seem familiar. Look, I really should get going.  Katara?  Hi, Aang.  You're the Painted Lady? But how? I wasn't her at first, I was just trying to help the village. But since everyone thought that's who I was anyway, I guess I just kinda became her.  So you've been sneaking out at night? Wait, is Appa even sick? He might be sick of the purple berries I've been feeding him, but other than that he's fine! I can't believe you lied to everyone, so you could help these people. I'm sorry, I know I shouldn't have ...  No, I think it's great! You're like a secret hero! Well, if you wanna help, there's one more thing I have to do. You wanna destroy this factory? Yes. Sokka was just kidding, but he was right. Getting rid of this factory is the only way to help these people permanently. Shhh! We don't wanna wake Sokka. Hi, Sokka, we were just out on a morning walk!  Oh, really? A morning walk? I know you're the Painted Lady, I know you've been sneaking out at night, and I know you've been lying about Appa and been feeding him purpleising tongue berries! Katara, what you did put our whole mission in jeopardy. We're leaving right now! And how long did you know about this?  Hey, I just found out this morning!  What's going on? Fire Nation soldiers are heading toward the village!  What did you do? I kind of destroyed their factory. You what?  It was your idea! I was joking! I also said to use spirit magic and made funny noises! Did you even think this through? The army is gonna blame the villagers! They're headed there right now to get revenge! Well, what was I supposed to do? Leave! Do nothing!  No, I will never, ever turn my back on people who need me! I'm going down to that village, and I am gonna do whatever I can. Wait! I'm coming, too. I thought you didn't want to help. You need me, and I will never turn my back on you. Sokka, you really do have a heart.   He really does have a heart, doesn't he? I thought we could live as neighbors, in peace. But I guess I was wrong. You steal our food, our medicine ... and then you destroy our factory.  We didn't do any of that. Yeah, the Painted Lady brought us food. She's the one that healed our sick, not your medicine.  Oh, right, the mysterious Painted Lady did it. And I suppose she drew the army emblem on your containers, too. This is a town of thieves and liars! Where's your Painted Lady now? We're going to cure the world of this wretched village. Light it again! Look at that! Where's it coming from? I don't know. Something strange is going on. It's the Painted Lady. She's coming. There is no Painted Lady! What is that sound? Maybe it is her. Do something! Stand your ground! I'll take care of you myself. Leave this village and never come back. I knew you'd come. Thank you! Painted Lady, you're the best! Me and my brothers really owe you a lot. Hey, wait a minute! I know you! You're not the Painted Lady, you're that colonial girl! Yeah, you're the lady that gave me a fish.  You've been tricking us. You're a waterbender! She's a waterbender! How dare you act like our Painted Lady! Maybe she is a waterbender, but she was just trying to help you. Because of her, that factory won't be polluting your river, and the army is gone. You should be down on your knees thanking her! Sokka, it's okay. I shouldn't have acted like someone I wasn't, and I shouldn't have tricked you. But I felt like I had to do something. It doesn't matter if the Painted Lady is real or not. Because your problems are real, and this river is real. You can't wait around for someone to help you. You have to help yourself. She's right, but what should we do?  Maybe we can clean the river! Yeah, we can clean the river! Thank you. You know, you're not so bad for a waterbender. You wouldn't mind keeping that a secret, by the way, would you? No problem. Keeping my mouth shut is a personal specialty. My brother Xu, on the other hand, ohh, he's a blabbermouth.  So, Dock, are you gonna help us clean? No, ma'am. I'm going to get my other brother, Bushi. He loves cleaning rivers. All right, I'm Bushi! Let's get some river cleaning done! Aha, I knew it! I knew you were the same guy. You're the shop owner and the boat guy. Oh, you must be talking about my brothers, Dock and Xu.  No, I just saw you! You switched hats and called yourself a different name!  Oh, you know who does that? My brother, Dock. He's crazy.  Thank you.   Previously on Avatar ... You're looking at the only waterbender in the whole South Pole. This ship has haunted my tribe when Gran-Gran was a little girl. It was part of the Fire Nation's first attacks. The legend said the moon was the first waterbender. Our ancestor saw how it pushed and pulled the tides, and learned how to do it themselves. I always noticed my waterbending is stronger at night. What are you doing? I'm making my own water!  Suddenly, they heard something down the hall in the dark. Oooh ... It came into the torchlight ... and they knew the blade of Wing Fung was haunted! Ooh-aaah!  I think I like "the man with a sword for a hand" better. Water Tribe slumber parties must stink. No, wait! I've got one! And this is a true Southern Water Tribe story.  Is this one of those "a friend of my cousin knew some guy that this happened to" stories? No, it happened to Mom. One winter when Mom was a girl, a snowstorm buried the whole village for weeks. A month later, Mom noticed she hadn't seen her friend Nini since the storm. So Mom and some others went to check on Nini's family. When they got there, no one was home. Just a fire flickering in the fireplace. While the men went out to search, Mom stayed in the house. When she was alone, she heard a voice. "It's so cold and I can't get warm!" Mom turned and saw Nini standing by the fire. She was blue like she was frozen. Mom ran outside for help, but when everyone came back, Nini was gone.  Where'd she go? No one knows. Nini's house stands empty to this day, but sometimes, people see smoke coming up from the chimney, like little Nini is still trying to get warm.  Wait! Guys, did you hear that? I hear people under the mountain. And they're screaming. Pfft! Nice try.  No, I'm serious. I hear something. You're probably just jumpy from the ghost stories ... It just ... stopped.  All right, now I'm getting scared.  Hello, children. Sorry to frighten you. My name is Hama. You children shouldn't be out in the forest by yourselves at night. I have an inn nearby. Why don't you come back there for some spiced tea and warm beds?  Yes, please. Thanks for letting us stay here tonight. You have a lovely inn.  Aren't you sweet? You know you should be careful. People have been disappearing in those woods you were camping in. What do you mean "disappearing"?  When the moon turns full, people walk in and they don't come out. Who wants more tea? Don't worry, you'll all be completely safe here. Why don't I show you to your rooms and you can get a good night's rest? I know, Momo. This place is creepy! I don't know if I'm gonna be able to fall asleep!  Wakey, wakey! Time to go shopping! That Mr. Yao seems to have a thing for you. Maybe we should go back and see if he'll give us some free komodo sausages?  You would have me use my feminine charms to take advantage of that poor man? I think you and I are going to get along swimmingly! You won't have any ash bananas till next week? Well, I have to send the boy to Hing Wa Island to get them, and it's a two-day trip. Oh, right. Tomorrow's the full moon.  Exactly. I can't lose another delivery boy in the woods. People disappearing in the woods, weird stuff happening during full moons? This just reeks of Spirit World shenanigans. I bet if we take a little walk around town, we'll find out what these people did to the environment to make the spirits mad.  And then you can sew up this little mystery lickety-split, Avatar style!  Helping people ... that's what I do. Why don't you take all those things back to the inn? I just have to run a couple more errands. I'll be back in a little while.  This is a mysterious little town you have here.  Mysterious town for mysterious children. That Hama seems a little strange. Like she knows something, or she's hiding something.  That's ridiculous. She's a nice woman who took us in and gave us a place to stay. She kinda reminds me of Gran-Gran. But what did she mean by that comment, "mysterious children"? Gee, I don't know. Maybe because she found four strange kids camping in the woods at night? Isn't that a little mysterious? I'm gonna take a look around.   Sokka! Sokka, what are you doing? You can't just snoop around someone's house. It'll be fine.  She could be home any minute.  Sokka, you're gonna get us all in trouble and this is just plain rude!  I'm not finished yet. Come on ... Okay, that's pretty creepy.  So she's got a hobby. There's nothing weird about that. Sokka, you've looked enough. Hama will be back soon. Just an ordinary puppet-loving innkeeper, huh? Well then why does she have a locked door up here?  Probably to keep people like you from snooping through her stuff! We'll see. It's empty, except for a little chest. Maybe it's treasure!  Sokka, what are you doing? You're breaking into a private room! I have to see what's in there. We shouldn't be doing this. Maybe there's a key here somewhere ... Ooh! Hand it over!  Come on, come on!  This isn't as easy as it looks!  Guys, I don't know about this ... This is crazy! I'm leaving! Suit yourself! Do it, Toph!  I'll tell you what's in the box.  An old comb? It's my greatest treasure. It's the last thing I own from growing up in the Southern Water Tribe.  You're from the Southern Water Tribe?  Just like you. How did you know? I heard you talking around your campfire. But why didn't you tell us? I wanted to surprise you! I bought all this food today so I could fix you a big Water Tribe dinner. Of course, I can't get all the ingredients I need here, but ocean kumquats are a lot like sea prunes if you stew them long enough.  Great ... I knew I felt a bond with you right away. And I knew you were keeping a secret, so I guess we're both right. But I'm sorry we were sneaking around. Apology accepted. Now, let's get cooking!  I'd steer clear of the sea prunes. I thought they were ocean kumquats. Close enough. Who wants five flavor soup?  You're a waterbender! I've never met another waterbender from our tribe!  That's because the Fire Nation wiped them all out. I was the last one ... So how did you end up out here?  I was stolen from my home.  It was over sixty years ago when the raids started.  They came again and again, each time rounding up more of our waterbenders and taking them captive.  We did our best to hold them off, but our numbers dwindled as the raids continued.  Finally, I too was captured.  I was led away in chains. The last waterbender of the Southern Water Tribe. They put us in terrible prisons here in the Fire Nation. I was the only one who managed to escape. How did you get away? And why did you stay in the Fire Nation? I'm sorry. It's too painful to talk about anymore. We completely understand. We lost our mother in a raid.  Oh, you poor things. I can't tell you what it means to meet you. It's an honor. You're a hero. I never thought I'd meet another Southern waterbender. I'd like to teach you what I know so you can carry on the Southern tradition when I'm gone. Yes! Yes, of course! To learn about my heritage, it would mean everything to me. Growing up in the South Pole, waterbenders are totally at home surrounded by snow and ice and seas. But as you probably noticed on your travels, that isn't the case wherever you go. I know! When we were stranded in the desert, I felt like there was almost nothing I could do.  That's why you have to learn to control water wherever it exists. I've even used my own sweat for waterbending.  That's very resourceful, Katara. You're thinking like a true master. But did you know you could even pull water out of thin air? You have got to keep an open mind, Katara. There's water in places you never think about. This has got to be the nicest natural setting in the Fire Nation. I don't see anything that would make a spirit mad around here. Maybe the Moon Spirit just turned mean.  The Moon Spirit is a gentle, loving lady. She rules the sky with compassion and ... lunar goodness!  Excuse me, sir. Can you tell us anything about the spirit that's been stealing people? Only one man ever saw it and lived and that's Old Man Ding. Where does Old Man Ding live? Wow, these flowers are beautiful. They're called fire lilies. They only bloom a few weeks a year, but they're one of my favorite things about living here. And like all plants and all living things, they're filled with water. I met a waterbender who lived in a swamp and could control the vines by bending the water inside. You can take it even further. That was incredible! It's a shame about the lilies, though. They're just flowers. When you're a waterbender in a strange land, you do what you must to survive. Tonight I'll teach you the ultimate technique of waterbending. It can only be done during the full moon, when your bending is at its peak.  But isn't that dangerous? I thought people have been disappearing around here during the full moon. Oh, Katara. Two master waterbenders beneath a full moon? I don't think we have anything to worry about. Old Man Ding? Huh? Ow, dang blame it! What? Can't you see I'm busy? Got a full moon rising. And why does everyone call me that? I'm not that old! Well, I'm young at heart. Not ready to get snapped up by some moon monster yet at least.  We wanted to ask you about that. Did you get a good look at the spirit that took you? Didn't see no spirit, just felt something come over me, like I was possessed. Forced me to start walking toward the mountain. I tried to fight it, but I couldn't control my own limbs. It just about had me into a cave up there. And I looked up at the moon for what I thought would be my last glimpse of light. But then the sun started to rise and I got control of myself again! I just high-tailed it away from that mountain as quick as I could! Why would a spirit want to take people to a mountain? Oh no! I did hear people screaming under the mountain. The missing villagers must still be there!  I can hear them. They're this way! Can you feel the power the full moon brings? For generations it has blessed waterbenders with its glow, allowing us to do incredible things!  I've never felt more alive. This is the place. I can't see anything down there.  That's why you have me. Let's go! We're saved! I didn't know spirits made prisons like this. Who brought you here? It was no spirit. It was a witch! A witch? What do you mean?  She seems like a normal old woman, but she controls people like some dark puppetmaster!  Hama! Yes, the innkeeper! I knew there was something creepy about her! We have to stop Hama! I'll get these people out of here. You go! What I'm about to show you, I discovered in that wretched Fire Nation prison.  The guards were always very careful to keep any water away from us. They piped in dry air and had us suspended away from the ground. Before giving us any water, they would bind our hands and feet so we couldn't bend. Any sign of trouble was met with cruel retribution. And yet each month, I felt the full moon enriching me with its energy. There had to be something I could do to escape. Then I realized that where there is life, there is water. The rats that scurried across the floor of my cage were nothing more than skins filled with liquid and I passed years developing the skill that would lead to my escape. Bloodbending. Controlling the water in another body, enforcing your own will over theirs. Once I had mastered the rats, I was ready for the men.  And during the next full moon, I walked free for the first time in decades. My cell unlocked by the very guards assigned to keep me in. Once you perfect this technique, you can control anything or anyone.  But ... to reach inside someone and control them? I don't know if I want that kind of power.  The choice is not yours. The power exists. And it's your duty to use the gifts you've been given to win this war. Katara, they tried to wipe us out, our entire culture, your mother!  I know.  Then you should understand what I'm talking about! We're the last two waterbenders of the Southern Tribe. We have to fight these people whenever we can, wherever they are, with any means necessary!  It's you ... You're the one who's been making people disappear during the full moons!  They threw me in prison to rot, along with my brothers and sisters! They deserve the same! You must carry on my work!  I won't! I won't use bloodbending and I won't allow you to keep terrorizing this town!   You should've learned the technique before you turned against me! It's impossible to fight your way out of my grip! I control every muscle, every vein in your body!  Stop! Please ...  You're not the only one who draws power from the moon! My bending is more powerful than yours, Hama. Your technique is useless on me!  Aahhh! We know what you've been doing, Hama! Give up! You're outnumbered! No! You've outnumbered yourselves.  Katara, look out! It's like my brain has a mind of its own! Stop it arm, stop it! This feels weird!  I'm sorry, Aang! It's okay!  Don't hurt your friends, Katara! And don't let them hurt each other!  No! You're going to be locked away forever. My work is done. Congratulations, Katara. You're a bloodbender.  How could you do this to me? You betrayed me!  You brought this on yourself. I had no choice.  Okay. I'm ready for some training. Good job, Twinkle Toes. Visualize, then attack. Maybe you should take your own advice, Toph! What's the matter? Can't handle a little dirt, Madame Fussy-Britches? Oh, sorry. Did I splash you, Mud-Slug? Are we taking a break?  Sneak Attack!  Sokka, sneak attacks don't work if you yell it out loud. Hungry for a mud pie?   I'll give you a mud pie! Uh guys, I thought we were supposed to be training me.  Very well, pupil. I believe we've had enough training for today.  While Katara cleans up, let's go have some fun! Yeah!  Yes! Look at all those messenger hawks! You know, I've been thinking about getting one for myself. That way, I wouldn't have to talk to anyone. I could just send them messages. I gotta say, I like the idea of not talking to you.   So, guys. What are we gonna get with our last silver piece?  We can get more money. Right there.  This is where you seeing people are at a disadvantage. Everyone guesses wrong because the dealer moves the rock at the last minute. But I can feel it with my earthbending.   You there. Wanna play a friendly game? How can I possibly play? I'm blind. You don't have to see to be lucky. Flamey-O, Toph. Wow. Fancy guessing. You are amazing at this. Would you like to make the game a little more interesting?  More interesting? How?  Well, let's say you toss in your friend's fine sword there, then I'll put up twenty silver pieces against it, and that's more interesting.  I'll do it for forty silver pieces.  Forty silver pieces it is.   Sorry, little lady, but- Huh?  I won!  Where did you guys get the money to buy all this stuff? Toph got us money. She scammed one of those guys in town who moves the shells around all sneaky-like.   She used earthbending to win the game! Classic! Ah, so she cheated.  Hey! I only cheated because he was cheating! I cheated a cheater. What's wrong with that? I'm just saying this isn't something we should make a habit of doing. Why? Because it's fun? And you hate fun? I don't hate fun! See? Fun!   Katara, I'll personally make you an Avatar Promise that we won't make a habit of doing these scams. Guys, I think these scams have gone far enough. If you keep doing them, something bad is gonna happen. Could you for once stop being such a sourpuss and just lighten up?   Oh, I'm sorry! You think I should be more like you? Like some wild child?  Yeah! Maybe! Maybe then you'd see   how great we have it! I mean, look at us! We're traveling around the world! Making easy money! Having fun! With no parents to tell us what to do! Ah. I see. You're acting like this because of your parents. Whatever. They were controlling over you, so you ran away, and now you act like your parents don't exist. You act like you hate them, but you don't. You just feel guilty. I do hate them. I don't think so. I think you miss them, but you just don't wanna deal with that, so instead you act like this crazy person.  Look, I ran away to help Aang! You know what? It doesn't matter. These scams put us all at risk, and we don't need that. We've already got some third-eyed freak after us. Speaking of that "third-eyed freak", I think I've come up with a name for him. What do you think of "Sparky-Sparky-Boom Man"? Just think about it.  We have enough money! You need to stop this!  I'll stop when I wanna stop and not when you tell me!   Speaking of money, I'm off to spend some. See you guys later.  Hawky, welcome to Team Avatar. My name's Sokka, and I'm your new owner, and as such I should warn you that there's already a lemur in our group, so I don't wanna see any fighting. Good little messenger hawky. Who's got pretty feathers? You're right, Hawky. This is bad.  Toph, while I was in town, I found something that you're not gonna like.  Well it sounds like a sheet of paper, but I guess you're referring to what's on the sheet of paper. It's a wanted poster. Of you. They've nicknamed you the Runaway.  A wanted poster! That's so great! "The Runaway." I love my new nickname. Is there a picture of me? Does it look good?  Well yeah, actually, it does look pretty good. But, Toph, you're missing the point. Maybe Katara was right. These scams are drawing too much attention to us. Don't be such a worrywart like your sister. Think of it this way: Now you've got plenty of money to help with the invasion plan.   Well, that is true. I had this idea of making armor for Appa.   Here's a little extra, so you can get yourself a nice map of the Fire Nation. You know what? Make it an atlas.  I do like expensive atlases. Of course you do. And that's why this wanted poster is going to stay our little secret.  Sokka, tell me you didn't buy a bird. Not just a bird, a messenger bird. Now we can send messages all over the world. Even to Gran Gran.  Wow, how does it work? Hm. Uh, I never actually thought about that. Hawky, Gran Gran, South Pole. I think he gets it. Hawky! Make nice! Bad Hawky!  Well. Look who decided to join us. Where have you two been? Off scamming again? Yes, we were.   And I suppose you don't think what you're doing is dangerous at all? No, I don't. Really? Yes. Really.  Well then. What's this?   I don't know! I mean, seriously! What is with you people? I'm blind!  It's a wanted poster of you! "The Runaway!" Is that what you're called now? Are you proud of this?  Where did you get that!? It doesn't matter where I got it. The fact is- You went through my stuff! You had no right! Your stuff was messy and I was just straightening up, and I happened to stumble across it! That's a lie! You're lying, Katara!  Fine! It's a lie! But you've been so out of control lately, I knew something was up! I knew you were hiding something and you were! Don't you walk away from me while I'm talking to you!  Oh really, Mom? Or what are you gonna do? Send me to my room? I wish I could! Well you can't! Because you're not my mom, and you're not their mom!  I never said I was! No, but you certainly act like it! You think it's your job to boss everyone around, but it's not! You're just a regular kid like the rest of us! So stop acting like you can tell me what to do! I can do whatever I want! I don't act that way! Sokka, do I act motherly?  Hey. I'm staying out of this one.  What do you think, Aang? Do I act like a mom?  Well. I, uh-  Stop rubbing your eye and speak clearly when you talk!  Yes, ma'am. I can't be around you right now! Well, I can't be around you!  I know, Hawky. Why can't they just get along? Hey, Aang. You wanna test out my messenger hawk with me? I've got an idea. Sure.   I'm going to send a note to Katara and say it's from Toph, who wants to apologize. Then everyone will be friends again. I gotta say, Sokka, you continue to impress me with your ideas. It's a gift. "Dear Katara, sorry for everything. Your friend, Toph." I know this is from you, Sokka! Toph can't write! Ugh! You're all driving me crazy!  I can't believe we forgot Toph can't write. Yup. We're idiots.  I guess Plan B is we send a note to Toph pretending it's from Katara. I think we're gonna run into a similar problem. Sorry, Hawky. Looks like I'm gonna have to do this without your help. Come on. We need to talk. So lemme guess: You brought me out here to tell me that your sister's not as annoying as I make her out to be. Nah, she's pretty much a pain. She's always got to be right about everything and she gets all bossy and involved and in your business ... Yeah. I don't know how you could deal with it. Actually, in a way, I rely on it.  I don't understand. When our mom died, that was the hardest time in my life. Our family was a mess, but Katara? She had so much strength. She stepped up and took on so much responsibility. She helped fill the void that was left by our mom. I guess I never thought about that. I'm gonna tell you something crazy. I never told anyone this before, but honestly? I'm not sure I can remember what my mother looked like. It really seems like my whole life, Katara's been the one looking out for me. She's always been the one that's there. And now, when I try to remember my mom, Katara's is the only face I can picture.  The truth is sometimes Katara does act motherly, but that's not always a bad thing. She's compassionate and kind, and she actually cares about me. You know, the real me. That's more than my own mom. Don't ever tell her I said any of this! Hey, my lips are sealed. Hi, Toph. Um, I wanna-  Katara, stop. You don't need to apologize. I was the one being stupid. These scams are out of control, and I'm done with them.  Actually I wasn't going to apologize. I was gonna say ... I wanna pull a scam with you.   What? You wanna pull a scam? Not just any scam. The ultimate scam. Whaddaya say, Toph? Just me and you. One last go. You in?  You know I'm in! Now what's this idea of yours?  The plan is simple: This wanted poster says you're worth a lot of money; Ten times more than you've made in all of your scams. So I'm gonna turn you in and collect the reward. Then you metalbend yourself out of jail, and we're on our way.   How could you do this to me? You betrayed me!  You brought this on yourself. I had no choice.  You did the right thing by turning in the Runaway. The right thing is its own reward. Well, I'm happy to hear you say that.  But, I still want the actual reward. Of course. Right this way. Hey! What kind of cell is this? A wooden one.  That's her! That's the girl you were looking for! Do you think this scam of theirs should be taking this long? I was just wondering the same thing. We'd better check it out. You two behave. Appa's in charge.  Wait! It's a trap!  Really? No kidding! Is that why we're sitting in a wooden cage right now? Gee, how'd you figure out it was a trap? Not for us, Katara! We're the bait! He wants Aang!  I can't believe I'm so stupid! See? This is exactly why I'm against these scams! I knew this would happen! But, this was your idea. I know. I wanted to show that I'm not so motherly. I wanted to show you that I can have fun too. Katara, you are fun. If nothing else, you're at least fun to argue with. I know your relationship with your parents is complicated. And I shouldn't have said what I said. It's okay. I was really mad when you said that because ... well because, maybe it's true. I try not to think about it, but when I left, I probably really hurt them. Where do you think they might be? Where do you think anyone is? Sokka, watch out! It's Sparky-Sparky-Boom Man! You know, I'm starting to think that name doesn't quite fit. What are we gonna do? I don't know. I wish we had some earth or water. We need bendables. What about your meteor bracelet? You can make a saw. I left it back at camp. I was worried they would take it.  Um, Katara? Are you okay? Just fine.  Well, what are you doing? I'm making my own water.  Katara! You're a genius! A sweaty, stinky genius! This guy is too good! He shoots fire from his brain! We should split up. He can't chase us both. Aang, get up!  Let's get out of here!  Hey, I got it! The perfect name for that guy: "Combustion Man!" Good job, Sokka. Now let's get outta here before Combustion Man catches us. See? It fits so well!  Well, I'm exhausted. Hawky, how about you, buddy? Yeah. You're such a lazy little bird. Katara? I need your help.  What is it, Toph?  I need you to write some things down for me. I wanna send a letter to my parents.  I'll be happy to help. Hey, where'd Hawky go?  Waterbending bomb! Yeah!   Sure, five thousand year-old maps from the spirit library. Just splash some water on 'em. Sorry.  So, did you figure out what route we're going to take? Okay, we just got out of the desert, so we must be around here. And we need to go to Ba Sing Se, which is here. It looks like the only passage connecting the south to the north is this sliver of land called the Serpent's Pass. You sure that's the best way to go? It's the only way. I mean, it's not like we have Appa to fly us there.  Shush up about Appa. Can't you at least try to be sensitive? Katara, it's okay. I know I was upset about losing Appa before, but I just want to focus on getting to Ba Sing Se and telling the Earth King about the solar eclipse.  Oh ... well, okay. I'm glad you're doing better. Then to Ba Sing Se we go. No more distractions. Hello there, fellow refugees! So, you guys are headed to Ba Sing Se, too? Sure are. We're trying to get there before my wife Ying has her baby. Great! We can travel through the Serpent's Pass together. The Serpent's Pass? Only the truly desperate take that deadly route! Deadly route. Great pick, Sokka! Well, we are desperate. You should come with us to Full Moon Bay. Ferries take refugees across the lake. It's the fastest way to Ba Sing Se. And it's hidden, so the Fire Nation can't find it. Hmm ... peaceful ferry ride or deadly pass? I can't believe how many people's lives have been uprooted by the Fire Nation. We're all looking for a better life, safe behind the walls of Ba Sing Se. Who would have thought after all these years, I'd return to the scene of my greatest military disgrace ... as a tourist! Look around. We're not tourists, we're refugees. Ugh! I'm sick of eating rotten food, sleeping in the dirt. I'm tired of living like this! Aren't we all? My name's Jet and these are my Freedom Fighters, Smellerbee and Longshot. Hey.  Hello. Here's the deal. I hear the captain's eating like a king while the refugees have to feed off his scraps. Doesn't seem fair, does it? What sort of king is he eating like? The fat, happy kind. You want to help us "liberate" some food?  I'm in. I told you already ... no vegetables on the ferry! One cabbage slug could destroy the entire ecosystem of Ba Sing Se! Security! Ahhh! My cabbages!  Next! Um, four tickets for the ferry to Ba Sing Se, please. Passports? Uh ... no one told us we had to have passports. Don't you know who this is? He's the Avatar! Ah, I see fifty Avatars a day and, by the way, not a very impressive costume. Besides, no animals allowed. Do I need to call security? That won't be necessary. Next! I'll take care of this. My name is Toph Beifong, and I'll need four tickets.  Ah, the golden seal of the flying boar! It is my pleasure to help anyone of the Beifong family. It is your pleasure. As you can see, I am blind and these three imbeciles are my valets.  But, the animal- -is my seeing-eye lemur. Well, normally it's only one ticket per passport, but this document is so official ... I guess it's worth four tickets.  Thank you very much. All right, we scammed that lady good! Tickets and passports please. Is there a problem? Yeah, I got a problem with you! I've seen your type before. Probably sarcastic, think you're hilarious and let me guess, you're traveling with the Avatar. Do I know you? You mean you don't remember? Maybe you'll remember this!  Suki!  Sokka, it's good to see you! You look so different without your makeup! And the new outfit. That crabby lady makes all the security guards wear them. And look at you, sleeveless guy. Been working out? Ahhh, I'll grab a tree branch and do a few chin touches every now and then. Nothing major. Are the other Kyoshi Warriors around? Yeah. After you left Kyoshi, we wanted to find a way to help people. We ended up escorting some refugees and we've been here ever since. Hi, Momo! Good to see you too! So why are you guys getting tickets for the ferry? Wouldn't you just fly across on Appa? Appa is missing. We hope to find him in Ba Sing Se. I'm so sorry to hear that. Are you doing okay? I'm doing fine. Would everybody stop worrying about me? Avatar Aang, you have to help us! Someone took all of our belongings; our passports, our tickets, everything's gone! I'll talk to the lady for you. No passports, no tickets!  But she's pregnant and all of her stuff was stolen! You have to make an exception! No exceptions! If I just gave away tickets willy-nilly to anyone, there would be no more order! You know what that means, no more civilization! What if we gave them our tickets? No! But ... Next! Don't worry, you'll get to the city safely. I'll lead you through the Serpent's Pass. I can't believe we gave up our tickets and now we're going through the Serpent's Pass. I can't believe you're still complaining about it.  I'm coming too! Are you sure that's a good idea? Sokka, I thought you'd want me to come. I do, it's just– Just what? Nothing. I'm glad you're coming. This is the Serpent's Pass? I thought it would be a little more wind-y, you know, like a serpent. Huh, I guess they misnamed it. Look at this writing! How awful! What does it say? It says, "abandon hope". How can we abandon hope? It's all we have! I don't know. The monks used to say that hope was just a distraction, so maybe we do need to abandon it. What are you talking about? Hope is not going to get us into Ba Sing Se and it's not going to help find Appa. We need to focus on what we're doing right now and that's getting across this path. Okay, if you say so. The Fire Nation controls the western lake. Rumor has it they're working on something big on the other side of it and don't want anyone to find out what it is. I'm okay!  They've spotted us! Let's go, let's go! Suki, are you okay? You have to be more careful! Come on!  "Thanks for saving my life, Toph." Hey, no problem, Sokka. Suki, you shouldn't sleep there. Who knows how stable this ledge is, it could give away at any moment!  Sokka, I'm fine, stop worrying! You're right, you're right, you're perfectly capable of taking care of yourself! Wait! Oh, never mind, I thought I saw a spider, but, you're fine. Guard's coming! You know, it's okay to miss Appa. What's going on with you? In the desert, all you cared about was finding Appa and now it's like you don't care about him at all. You saw what I did out there. I was so angry about losing Appa that I couldn't control myself. I hated feeling like that. But now you're not letting yourself feel anything. I know sometimes it hurts more to hope and it hurts more to care. But you have to promise me that you won't stop caring. Come on, you need a hug.  Thank you for your concern, Katara.  It's a beautiful moon. Yeah, it really is. Look, I know you're just trying to help, but I can take care of myself. I know you can. Then why are you acting so overprotective? It's so hard to lose someone you care about. Something happened at the North Pole and I couldn't protect someone. I don't want anything like that to ever happen again. I lost someone I care about. He didn't die, he just went away. I only had a few days to get to know him, but he was smart and brave and funny ...  Who is this guy? Is he taller than me? No, he's about your height. Is he better-looking? It is you, stupid! Oh! I can't. I'm sorry. No, you shouldn't be.  So, Smellerbee. That's an unusual name for a young man. Maybe it's because I'm not a man ... I'm a girl!   Oh, now I see. It's a beautiful name for a lovely girl! I know, you're right. As long as I'm confident with who I am, it doesn't matter what other people think. Thanks, Longshot. From what I heard, people eat like this every night in Ba Sing Se. I can't wait to set my eyes on that giant wall. It is a magnificent sight. So you've been there before? Once. When I was a ... different man. I've done some things in my past that I'm not proud of, but that's why I'm going to Ba Sing Se: for a new beginning. A second chance. That's very noble of you. I believe people can change their lives if they want to. I believe in second chances. Everyone single file! Aang, I need help!  What is that thing? I think I just figured out why they call it the Serpent's Pass! Suki, you know about giant sea monsters, make it go away! Just because I live near the unagi doesn't mean I'm an expert!  Oh great and powerful sea serpent, please accept this humble and tasty offering. Thank you. Sokka!  I'll distract it. Katara, get everyone across!  Toph, come on, it's just ice!  Actually, I'm going to stay on my little island, where I can see! Okay, I'm coming!  You're doing great! Just follow the sound of my voice! It's hard to ignore. You're almost there! Help! I can't swim! I'm coming, Toph! Help!  Oh Sokka, you saved me!  Actually, it's me. Oh ... well ... you can go ahead and let me drown now. There's the wall! Now it's nothing but smooth sailing to Ba Sing Se.  Oh no! What's wrong? The baby's coming!  What? Now? Can't you hold it in or something? Sokka, calm down. I helped Gran-Gran deliver lots of babies back home. This isn't the same as delivering an arctic seal! This is a real ... human ... thing! It's called a baby and I helped her deliver plenty of those, too. Aang, get some rags. Sokka, water. Toph, I need you to make an earth tent, a big one. Suki, come with me. You know, as soon as I saw your scar, I knew exactly who you were. You're an outcast, like me. And us outcasts have to stick together. We have to watch each other's backs. Because no one else will. I've realized lately that being on your own isn't always the best path. You're doing great, Ying. Sokka, where's that water? Now get ready to push. One ... two ... ... three, push!  It's a girl! So, you want to go see the baby, or are you going to faint like an old lady again? No, no, I'm good this time.  Aang, you have to come see this. She sounds healthy. She's beautiful. It's so ... squishy looking. What should we name her? I want our daughter's name to be unique. I want it to mean something.  I've been going through a really hard time lately. But you've made me ... hopeful again. I know what I want to name our baby now. Hope. That's a perfect name. Hope. I thought I was trying to be strong. But really I was just running away from my feelings. Seeing this family together, so full of happiness and love, it's reminded me how I feel about Appa ... and how I feel about you. I promise, I'll find Appa as fast as I can. I just really need to do this. See you in the big city. Say hi to that big fuzzball for me.  You'll find him, Aang. I know. Thank you, Katara. You ready, Momo?  Sokka, it's been really great to see you again. Whoa, hold on. Why does it sound like you're saying goodbye? I came along because I wanted to make sure you got through the Serpent's Pass safely. But now I need to get back to the other Kyoshi Warriors. So you came along to protect me? Listen, I'm really sorry about last night. We were talking ... and saying things ... and I just got carried away and before I knew it -  You talk too much. Sorry Momo, Appa's going to have to wait.  Nice try, Pupil Sangok. A couple of more years and you might be ready to fight a sea sponge. Would anyone care for a rematch with Katara? Katara, you've advanced more quickly than any student I've ever trained. You have proven that with fierce determination, passion and hard work, you can accomplish anything. Raw talent alone is not enough. Pupil Aang!  Yes, Master Pakku?  Care to step into the sparring circle? I figure since you've found time to play with house pets, you must have already mastered waterbending.  I wouldn't say mastered, but check this out. So they don't have palaces in the Southern Tribe?  Are you kidding? I grew up in a block of ice. It's not exactly a cultural hub.  Sokka, this is wrong.  What's wrong? We're taking a walk!  I'm engaged. It just feels ...  I know what you need. You need to meet my good friend, Appa.  Who?  Appa and I go way back, don't we, boy? Ah, ah, easy! Down boy! Agh! No, up! Looks like you haven't been giving Appa enough attention!  So, how does this work? You holding on tight? Yip ... yip.  Oh ... my ... goodness! Wow, I can't believe you do this every day.  Yeah, we pretty much live up here. Is it always this cold in the sky?   Not when you're with someone.  It's beautiful up here. Yeah ... Woo, yeah! Ahhh, good times, good times. Hey, look!  What's happening?  Oh no ...  Soot. What? I've seen this before, right before my village was attacked. It's soot mixed with snow.  But, why?  It's the Fire Nation. They've closed in on the North Pole and from the looks of this stuff, I'd say there's a lot of them.  This will truly be one for the history books, General Iroh. Just think, centuries from now, people will study the great Admiral Zhao, who destroyed the last of the Water Tribe civilization. You're lucky you're here to see it.  Be careful what you wish for, Admiral. History is not always kind to its subjects. I suppose you speak from experience, but rest assured. This will be nothing like your legendary failure at Ba Sing Se.   I hope not, for your sake. Tell the captains to prepare for first strike.  We'll be landing soon. Do you have a plan?  I'm working on it, Uncle.   What's wrong? We have to go!  No, Sokka, wait, I can't see you anymore. Not at all.  What? We're just friends. I wish we could just be friends, but I like you too much and it's too confusing to be around you. I'm marrying someone else!  You don't love him, do you? You don't even seem to like him. But I do love my people.  You're not marrying   You don't understand. I have duties to my father, to my tribe. I have to do this. Goodbye. The day we have feared for so long has arrived. The Fire Nation is on our doorstep. It is with great sadness I call my family here before me, knowing well that some of these faces are about to vanish from our tribe, but they will never vanish from our hearts. Now, as we approach the battle for our existence, I call upon the great spirits. Spirit of the Ocean! Spirit of the Moon! Be with us! I'm going to need volunteers for a dangerous mission.  Count me in! Sokka ... Be warned, many of you will not return. Come forward to receive my mark, if you accept the task. The stillness before battle is unbearable. Such a quiet dread. I wasn't there when the Fire Nation attacked my people. I'm going to make a difference this time. Yip-yip!  Katara! I'll take it from here, boy.  Appa! Thanks for the rescue, buddy!  You've got to be kidding me ... Men, you'll be infiltrating the Fire Nation Navy. That means you'll all need one of these uniforms.  What's your problem? Fire Navy uniforms don't look like that.  Of course they do. These are real uniforms captured from actual Fire Navy soldiers.  When, like, a hundred years ago? Eighty-five.  The Fire Nation doesn't wear shoulder spikes anymore. The newer uniforms are more streamlined. How do we know we can trust this guy? Such bold talk for a new recruit. Sokka is from our sister tribe, Hahn. He's a capable warrior and I value his input. Now, our first objective is to determine the identity of their commanding officer. His name is Zhao. Middle-aged, big sideburns, bigger temper ... Sokka, I want you to tell everything you know to Hahn. He's leading this mission. Hahn, show Sokka your respect. I expect nothing less from my future son-in-law.  Princess Yue's marrying you?  Yeah, what of it?  Nothing. Congratulations.  Stop those fireballs! It's almost twilight, Admiral. As your military consultant, I must advise you to halt your attack. The waterbenders draw their power from the moon, and it is nearly full tonight. You should wait and resume the attack at daybreak.  Oh, I'm well aware of the moon problem and I am working on a solution. But for now, daybreak it is. They've stopped firing. Aang!  I can't do it ... I can't do it. What happened?  I must have taken out a dozen Fire Navy ships, but there's just too many of them. I can't fight them all.  But, you have to. You're the Avatar.  I'm just one kid. If you're fishing for an octopus my nephew, you need a tightly woven net, or he will squeeze through the tiniest hole and escape. I don't need your wisdom right now, Uncle. I'm sorry. I just nag you, because ... well, ever since I lost my son ... Uncle, you don't have to say it. ... I think of you as my own.  I know, Uncle. We'll meet again. After I have the Avatar.  Remember your breath of fire. It could save your life out there. I will.  And put your hood up. Keep your ears warm! I'll be fine!  Let me tell you Sokka, I've courted a lot of girls, but Yue is the finest and she comes with the most perks.  Perks? What does that mean? I mean, Yue's nice and everything, but the points I'll gain with the chief aren't bad either.  Princess Yue is wasted on a self-absorbed weasel like you!  Whoa, hang on. What do you care? You're just a simple rube from the Southern Tribe. What would you know of the political complexities of our life? No offense.  You're just a jerk without a soul, no offense! That's enough! Sokka, you're off the mission! All right, fall in men! Everybody listen to what I say and we'll take out this Admiral Chō in no time!  It's Admiral Zhao!  Where are they going? They're coming up for air somewhere.  The legends say the moon was the first waterbender. Our ancestors saw how it pushed and pulled the tides and learned how to do it themselves. I've always noticed my waterbending is stronger at night. Our strength comes from the spirit of the moon. Our life comes from the spirit of the ocean. They work together to keep balance.  The spirits! Maybe I can find them and get their help! How can you do that?  The Avatar is the bridge between our world and the Spirit World! Aang can talk to them!  Maybe they'll give you the wisdom to win this battle!  Or maybe they'll unleash a crazy amazing spirit attack on the Fire Nation! Or wisdom. That's good, too. The only problem is, last time you got to the Spirit World by accident. How are you going to get there this time? I have an idea. Follow me.  So, is this the way to the Spirit World?  No. You'll have to get there on your own. But I can take you to the most spiritual place in the entire North Pole.   I never thought I'd miss grass this much!  It's so warm here! How is that possible? It's the center of all spiritual energy in our land. You're right, Yue. I can feel ... something. It's so tranquil.   Be quiet! Is something wrong, Sokka?  Oh, no. Hahn's out there on the top-secret mission while I'm here sharpening my boomerang. Everything's fine. Listen to me. I took you off the mission for selfish reasons. I have a special task in mind for you. What, you want me to scrub the barracks? I want you to guard my daughter, Princess Yue.  Oh ... Sure. That ... shouldn't be too hard. Why is he sitting like that? He's meditating, trying to cross over into the Spirit World. It takes all his concentration. Is there any way we can help?  How about some quiet? Come on guys, I can hear every word you're saying!  Is he okay? He's crossing into the Spirit World. He'll be fine as long as we don't move his body. That's his way back to the physical world. Maybe we should get some help.  No, he's my friend. I'm perfectly capable of protecting him.  Well, aren't you a big girl now.  No ...  Yes. Hand him over and I won't have to hurt you.  I see you've learned a new trick, but I didn't come this far to lose to you. You little peasant. You've found a master, haven't you? It's daybreak at last. Let's write history. You rise with the moon ... I rise with the sun. The Water Tribe can try to resist the inevitable, but their city will fall today. Aang! What happened? Where's Zuko?  He took Aang. He took him right out from under me.  Where did they go ...  I can't believe I lost him. You did everything you could, and now we need to do everything we can to get him back. Zuko can't have gotten far. We'll find him. Aang's gonna be fine. Okay. It's all right. You stay here, Momo, in case Aang comes back. Yip, yip. Hello? I'm sorry to disturb you. I just really need to find the Moon and the Ocean Spirits.  Go. Away. You're still here? Yes, I need -  Ohm! Perhaps that thing will help you. Chase it. Finally. Come back! Hello, Aang.  Roku! Shelter.  Roku, the Water Tribe's under attack. I need to find the Ocean and the Moon Spirits.  The Ocean and the Moon are ancient spirits. They crossed over the Spirit World to the mortal world very near the beginning. There is only one spirit I know of who is old enough to remember. Who? The spirit's name is Koh, but he is very dangerous. They call him the Face Stealer. When you speak with him, you must be very careful to show no emotion at all. Not the slightest expression, or he will steal your face.  I finally have you, but I can't get you home because of this blizzard. There's always something. Not that you would understand. You're like my sister. Everything always came easy to her. She's a firebending prodigy, and everyone adores her. My father says she was born lucky. He says I was lucky to be born. I don't need luck, though. I don't want it. I've always had to struggle and fight and that's made me strong. It's made me who I am. I don't need to remind you we have a time limit. If we don't defeat the Water Tribe before the full moon rises, they will be undefeatable. I assure you I have everything under control. I intend to remove the moon as a factor.  Remove the moon? How? Admiral Choi! Prepare to meet your fate!  As I was saying, years ago I stumble upon a great and powerful secret: the identity of the Moon Spirit's mortal form. What? I was a young lieutenant serving under General Shu in the Earth Kingdom. I discovered a hidden library. Underground, in fact. I tore through scroll after scroll. One of them contained a detailed illustration, and the words "moon" and "ocean". I knew then that these spirits could be found and killed. And that it was my destiny to do so.  Zhao, the spirits are not to be trifled with! Yes, yes ... I know you fear the spirits, Iroh. I've heard rumors about your journey into the Spirit World. But the Ocean and Moon gave up their immortality to become a part of our world. And now they will face the consequences. You're just a curly tailed blue nose.  Aaahhh! Show no fear. Show no emotion at all. Hello? I-I'm looking for a spirit named 'Koh'.  Welcome!  Thank you.  My old friend, the Avatar. It's been a long time. You know me?  How could I forget you? One of your previous incarnations tried to slay me! Nearly eight or nine hundred years ago.  I didn't know that. Why did he, or I, try to kill you?  Oh, it was something about stealing the face of someone you loved. Of course, that's all behind us. Why should I hold a grudge against you for something in a past life? After all, you're a different person now. You've come to me ... with a new face. Guess we'll be here awhile. Don't worry, Prince Zuko can't be getting too far in this weather. I'm not worried they'll get away in the blizzard. I'm worried that they won't. They're not going to die in this blizzard. If we know anything, it's that Zuko never gives up. They'll survive, and we'll find them.  It's been a long time since I've added a child's face to my collection. So ... how may I help you? I need to find the moon and the ocean. Their spirit names are Tui and La, push and pull. And that has been the nature of their relationship for all time.  Please. Help me find them. An entire culture could be destroyed if I don't get their help.  Oh, you think you need their help. Actually it's quite the other way round.    What do you mean? How can I find them and protect them?  You've already met them, actually. Tui and La, your moon and ocean, have always circled each other in an eternal dance. They balance each other, push and pull, life and death, good and evil, yin and yang.  The koi fish! I must be going now.  We'll meet again. The spirits are in trouble, I need to get back to the physical world.  A friend is here, to guide you back.  Hei Bai! We'll be following this map to a very special location. And when we get there, we're going fishing.  This is where I came in, but how do I get back?  Good riddance. Momo! Momo. Oh no, where's my body? Look, that's gotta be Aang! Yip-yip! Welcome back.  It's good to be back.  That won't be enough to escape.  Appa!  Here for a rematch?  Trust me Zuko, it's not going to be much of a match. Hey, this is some quality rope! We need to get to the oasis; the spirits are in trouble! Wait, we can't just leave him here. Sure we can. Let's go. No, if we leave him he'll die.  Yeah, this makes a lot of sense. Let's bring the guy who's constantly trying to kill us.  Are you okay? I feel faint.  I feel it, too. The Moon Spirit is in trouble.  I owe the Moon Spirit my life. What do you mean?  When I was born I was very sick and very weak. Most babies cry when they're born, but I was born as if I was asleep, my eyes closed. Our healers did everything they could. They told my mother and father I was going to die. My father pleaded with the spirits to save me. That night, beneath the full moon, he brought me to the oasis and placed me in the pond. My dark hair turned white. I opened my eyes and began to cry, and they knew I would live. That's why my mother named me Yue. For the moon.  I am ... a legend, now! The Fire Nation will, for generations, tell stories about the great Zhao, who darkened the moon. They will call me, Zhao the Conqueror, Zhao the Moon Slayer, Zhao the Invincible! Ugh ... Get it off! Get it off! Don't bother.   Zhao, don't!  It's my destiny, to destroy the moon and the Water Tribe.  Destroying the moon won't hurt just the Water Tribe. It will hurt everyone, including you. Without the moon, everything would fall out of balance. You have no idea what kind of chaos that would unleash on the world.   He is right Zhao.  General Iroh, why am I not surprised to discover your treachery?  I'm no traitor, Zhao, the Fire Nation needs the moon, too; we all depend on the balance. Whatever you do to that spirit I'll unleash on you ten-fold. Let it go, now!  There's no hope now, it's over.  No, it's not over. You're alive?  You tried to have me killed!   Yes I did. You're the Blue Spirit, an enemy of the Fire Nation! You freed the Avatar. I had no choice.  You should have chosen to accept your failure; you're a disgrace. Then, at least, you could have lived!  It's too late, it's dead.  You have been touched by the Moon Spirit. Some of its life is in you. Yes, you're right. It gave me life, maybe I can give it back. No! You don't have to do that.  It's my duty, Sokka. I won't let you! Your father told me to protect you.  I have to do this.  No! She's gone, she's gone. Goodbye, Sokka. I'll always be with you.  It can't be! Take my hand! I've decide to go to the South Pole. Some other benders and healers want to join me. It's time we helped rebuild our sister tribe. What about Aang? He still needs to learn waterbending. Well, then he better get used to calling you Master Katara. The spirits gave me a vision when Yue was born. I saw a beautiful, brave, young woman become the Moon Spirit. I knew this day would come. You must be proud. So proud ... and sad. I'm surprised Prince Zuko, surprised that you are not at this moment trying to capture the Avatar. I'm tired. Then you should rest. A man needs his rest. You too, Momo. Come here. Iroh is a traitor, and your brother Zuko is a failure. I have a task for you.  Wait 'til you see it, Katara! The Air Temple is one of the most beautiful places in the world!  Aang, I know you're excited, but it's been a hundred years since you've been home.  That's why I'm so excited!  It's just that ... a lot can change in all that time.  I know, but I need to see it for myself.  Wake up, Sokka! Air Temple, here we come!   Uggh! Sleep now. Temple later.  Sokka! Wake up! There's a prickle snake in your sleeping bag!  Ahh! Get it off! Get it off! Ahh!  Great! You're awake! Let's go! Uncle, I want the repairs made as quickly as possible. I don't want to stay too long and risk losing his trail.  You mean the Avatar?  Don't mention his name on these docks! Once word gets out that he's alive, every firebender will be out looking for him, and I don't want anyone getting in the way!  Getting in the way of what, Prince Zuko?  Captain Zhao.  It's commander now. And General Iroh. Great hero of our nation.  Retired general. The Fire Lord's brother and son are welcome guests anytime. What brings you to my harbor? Our ship is being repaired. That's quite a bit of damage. Yes. You wouldn't believe what happened. Uncle! Tell Commander Zhao what happened.  Yes. I will do that. It was incredible! What? Did we crash or something?  Yes! Right into ... an Earth Kingdom ship!  Really? You must regale me with all of the details. Join me for a drink?  Sorry, but we have to go. Prince Zuko, show Commander Zhao your respect. We would be honored to join you. Do you have any ginseng tea? It's my favorite.  Hey, stomach? Be quiet, all right? I'm to find us some food.  Hey! Who ate all of my blubbered seal jerky?!  Oh. That was food? I used it to start the campfire last night. Sorry.  You what?! No wonder the flames smelled so good.  The Patola Mountain range! We're almost there!  Aang, before we get to the temple, I want to talk to you about the airbenders.  What about 'em?  Well, I just want you to be prepared for what you might see. The Fire Nation is ruthless. They killed my mother, and they could have done the same to your people.  Just because no one has seen an airbender, doesn't mean the Fire Nation killed them all. They probably escaped!  I know it's hard to accept.  You don't understand, Katara. The only way to get to an airbender temple is on a flying bison, and I doubt the Fire Nation has any flying bison! Right, Appa? Yip yip!  There it is. The Southern Air Temple. Aang, it's amazing!  We're home, buddy! We're home.  ... And by the year's end, the Earth Kingdom capital will be under our rule. The Fire Lord will finally claim victory in this war.  If my father thinks the rest of the world will follow him willingly, then he is a fool!  Two years at sea have done little to temper your tongue. So, how is your search for the Avatar going? Eh.. My fault, entirely.  We haven't found him yet. Did you really expect to? The Avatar died a hundred years ago. Along with the rest of the airbenders. Unless you have found some evidence that the Avatar is alive?  No. Nothing.  Prince Zuko, the Avatar is the only one who can stop the Fire Nation from winning this war. If you have an ounce of loyalty left, you'll tell me what you found. I haven't found anything. It's like you said. The Avatar probably died a long time ago. Come on, Uncle, we're going. Commander Zhao, we interrogated the crew as you instructed. They confirmed Prince Zuko had the Avatar in custody, but let him escape.  Now remind me, how, exactly, was your ship damaged? So where do I get something to eat?  You're lucky enough to be one of the first outsiders to ever visit an airbender temple, and all you can think about is food? I'm just a simple guy, with simple needs.  So that's where my friends and I would play airball, and over there is where the bison would sleep, and ...  What's wrong?  This place used to be full of monks and lemurs and bison. Now there's just a bunch of weeds. I can't believe how much things have changed.  So uh, this airball game. How do you play?  Aang, seven! Sokka, zero!  Making him feel better is putting me in a world of hurt. Katara, check this out. Fire Nation. We should tell him.  Aang! There's something you need to see.  Okay!  What is it?  Uh ... Just a new waterbending move I learned. Nice one! But enough practicing, we have a whole temple to see!  You know, you can't protect him forever.  Katara, firebenders were here. You can't pretend they weren't. I can for Aang's sake. If he finds out that the Fire Nation invaded his home, he'll be devastated.  Hey guys! I want you to meet somebody! Who's that?  Monk Gyatso! The greatest airbender in the world. He taught me everything I know. But the true secret, is in the gooey center.  Hmm ...  My ancient cake-making technique isn't the only thing on your mind, is it, Aang?  This whole Avatar thing, m-maybe the monks made a mistake. The only mistake they made was telling you before you turned sixteen, but we can't concern ourselves with what was. We must act on what is.  But Gyatso? How do I know if I'm ready for this?  Your questions will be answered when you're old enough to enter the air temple sanctuary. Inside, you will meet someone who will guide you on your journey.  Who is it?  When you are ready, he will reveal himself to you. Now, are you going to help me with these cakes, or not?  All right. One. Two. Three!  Your aim has improved greatly, my young pupil.  You must miss him.  Yeah.   Where are you going?  The air temple sanctuary. There's someone I'm ready to meet. But Aang, no one could have survived in there for a hundred years.  It's not impossible. I survived in the iceberg for that long.  Good point.  Katara, whoever's in there might help figure out this Avatar thing!  And whoever's in there might have a medley of delicious cured meats! I don't suppose you have a key?  The key, Sokka, is airbending.  Hello? Anyone home? So a twelve-year-old boy bested you and your firebenders. You're more pathetic than I thought.  I underestimated him once, but it will not happen again!  No, it will not. Because you won't have a second chance.  Commander Zhao, I've been hunting the Avatar for two years and I -  And you failed! Capturing the Avatar is too important to leave in a teenager's hands. He's mine now. Keep them here.  More tea, please.  Statues? That's it? Where's the meat? Who are all these people?  I'm not sure. But it feels like I know them somehow. Look! That one's an airbender.  And this one's a waterbender. They're lined up in a pattern: air, water, earth and fire. That's the Avatar Cycle.  Of course. They're Avatars. All these people are your past lives, Aang. Wow! There are so many!  Past lives? Katara, you really believe in that stuff? It's true. When the Avatar dies, he's reincarnated into the next nation in the cycle. Aang! Snap out of it!  Huh?  Who is that? That's Avatar Roku, the Avatar before me. You were a firebender? No wonder I didn't trust you when we first met.  There's no writing. How do you know his name? I'm not sure. I just know it somehow.  You just couldn't get any weirder.  Firebender. Nobody make a sound.  You're making a sound!  Shhhh!  That firebender won't know what hit him.  Lemur!  Dinner!  Don't listen to him. You're going to be my new pet.  Not if I get him first! Wait! Come back! I want to eat you! Hey! No fair! My search party is ready. Once I'm out to sea, my guards will escort you back to your ship and you'll be free to go.  Why? Are you worried I'm going to try and stop you?  You? Stop me? Impossible.  Don't underestimate me, Zhao! I will capture the Avatar before you!  Prince Zuko, that's enough.  You can't compete with me. I have hundreds of war ships under my command and you? You're just a banished prince. No home, no allies. Your own father doesn't even want you.  You're wrong! Once I deliver the Avatar to my father, he will welcome me home with honor, and restore my rightful place on the throne!  If your father really wanted you home, he would have let you return by now, Avatar or no Avatar. But in his eyes you are a failure and a disgrace to the Fire Nation.  That's not true. You have the scar to prove it.  Maybe you'd like one to match!  Is that a challenge? An Agni Kai. At sunset. Very well. It's a shame your father won't be here to watch me humiliate you. I guess your uncle will do.  Prince Zuko, have you forgotten what happened last time you dueled a master?  I will never forget.  Hey! Come back! Come on out, little lemur! That hungry guy won't bother you anymore.  Firebenders? They were here?  Gyatso.  Hey, Aang! You find my dinner yet? Aang, I wasn't really going to eat the lemur, okay? Oh, man. Come on, Aang. Everything will be all right. Let's get out of here.  Aang! Send word to the Fire Lord immediately! The Avatar has returned!  Aang! Come on! Snap out of it! Aaaaahh!  What happened?  He found out firebenders killed Gyatso! Oh no! It's his Avatar Spirit! He must have triggered it! I'm going to try and calm him down!   Well, do it! Before he blows us off the mountain! Remember your firebending basics, Prince Zuko. They are your greatest weapons.  I refuse to let him win.  This will be over quickly. Basics, Zuko! Break his root!  Do it! That's it? Your father raised a coward.  Next time you get in my way, I promise, I won't hold back. No, Prince Zuko. Do not taint your victory. So this is how the great Commander Zhao acts in defeat? Disgraceful. Even in exile, my nephew is more honorable than you. Thanks again for the tea. It was delicious.  Did you really mean that, Uncle?  Of course. I told you ginseng tea is my favorite.  Aang! I know you're upset and I know how hard it is to lose the people you love. I went through the same thing when I lost my mom. Monk Gyatso and the other airbenders may be gone, but you still have a family. Sokka and I! We're your family now!  Katara and I aren't going to let anything happen to you. Promise.  I'm sorry. It's okay. It wasn't your fault.  But you were right. And if the firebenders found this temple, that means they found the other ones, too. I really am the last airbender. Everything's packed. You ready to go?  How is Roku supposed to help me if I can't talk to him? Maybe you'll find a way. Looks like you made a new friend Sokka!  Can't talk! Must eat!   Hey, little guy!  You, me and Appa; we're all that's left of this place. We have to stick together. Katara, Sokka, say hello to the newest member of our family.  What are you going to name him? Momo.  Watch out!  What are you doing?  Keeping rocks from crushing you. Okay, I'm not crushed. You can get off me now! I'll take that as a thank you.   Come on! We can get out through here!  What are you doing? Go ahead! I'll hold them off. I think this is a family visit.   Zuko! No! Come on! We've gotta get out of here! What are you doing here?  You mean it's not obvious yet? I am about to celebrate becoming an only child! I can't get him to go in there! Appa hates tunnels! Aang, there's no way we can fly out of here. We'll have to find a way! We need to split up. Take the tunnel and get to the stolen airship.  No! The Fire Nation can't separate our family again! It'll be okay. It's not forever. I can clear that away and we can fly out through there! Um, there's an awful lot of fire in that general direction ... We'll get through. Let's go. She's ... not gonna make it ... Of course she did. Wow, camping ... it really seems like old times again, doesn't it?  If you really want it to feel like old times, I could, uh ... chase you around a while and try to capture you.   Ha, ha.  To Zuko! Who knew after all those times he tried to snuff us out, today he'd be our hero?  Hear! Hear!   I'm touched. I don't deserve this.  Yeah, no kidding.  What's with her? I wish I knew.   What's with him? This isn't fair! Everyone else seems to trust me now! What is it with you?  Oh, everyone trusts you now! I was the first person to trust you! Remember, back in Ba Sing Se. And you turned around and betrayed me, betrayed all of us!  What can I do to make it up to you?  You really want to know? Hmm, maybe you could reconquer Ba Sing Se in the name of the Earth King. Or, I know! You could bring my mother back!  Oops, wrong tent! Sorry, do you need to talk to Sokka, too? Nope, not me!   Well, hello ... Uh, Zuko! Yes, why would I be expecting anyone different? So what's on your mind? Your sister. She hates me! And I don't know why, but I do care what she thinks of me. Nah, she doesn't hate you. Katara doesn't hate anyone. Except maybe some people in the Fire Nation. No, I mean, uh, not people who are good, but used to be bad. I mean, bad people. Fire Nation people who are still bad, who've never been good and probably won't be, ever!  Stop. Okay, listen. I know this may seem out of nowhere, but I want you to tell me what happened to your mother.  What? Why would you want to know that? Katara mentioned it before when we were imprisoned together in Ba Sing Se, and again just now when she was yelling at me. I think somehow she's connected her anger at that to her anger at me.  It's not a day I like to remember. I'm going to find Mom!   Many of the warriors had seen the black snow before and they knew what it meant: a Fire Nation raid. We were badly outnumbered, but somehow, we managed to drive them off. As quickly as they came, they just left. I was so relieved when it was over, but that's because I didn't know yet what had happened. I didn't know we had lost our mother. Wait. Can you remember any details about the soldiers who raided your village? Like what the lead ship looked like? Yeah ... sea ravens. The main ship had flags with sea ravens on them. The symbol of the Southern Raiders. Thanks, Sokka.  No problem. Thanks for stopping by! I'd thought he'd never leave. Suki!  You look terrible. I waited out here all night.  What do you want? I know who killed your mother, and I'm going to help you find him. I need to borrow Appa.  Why? Is it your turn to take a little field trip with Zuko? Yes, it is.  Oh. What's going on? We're going to find the man who took my mother from me. Sokka told me the story of what happened. I know who did it and I know how to find him. Um ... and what exactly do you think this will accomplish?  Ugh, I knew you wouldn't understand.  Wait! Stop! I do understand. You're feeling unbelievable pain and rage. How do think I felt about the sandbenders when they stole Appa? How do you think I felt about the Fire Nation when I found out what happened to my people? She needs this, Aang. This is about getting closure and justice. I don't think so. I think it's about getting revenge.  Fine, maybe it is! Maybe that's what I need! Maybe that's what he deserves! Katara, you sound like Jet. It's not the same! Jet attacked the innocent. This man, he's a monster. Katara, she was my mother, too, but I think Aang might be right. Then you didn't love her the way I did!  Katara! The monks used to say that revenge is like a two-headed rat viper. While you watch your enemy go down, you're being poisoned yourself. That's cute, but this isn't air temple preschool. It's the real world. Now that I know he's out there ... now that I know we can find him, I feel like I have no choice. Katara, you do have a choice: forgiveness. That's the same as doing nothing! No, it's not. It's easy to do nothing, but it's hard to forgive. It's not just hard, it's impossible.  So you were just gonna take Appa anyway? Yes. It's okay, because I forgive you. That give you any ideas? Don't try to stop us. I wasn't planning to. This is a journey you need to take. You need to face this man. But when you do, please don't choose revenge. Let your anger out, and then let it go. Forgive him.  Okay, we'll be sure to do that, guru goody-goody.  Thanks for understanding, Aang. Yip-yip.  You know, you're pretty wise for a kid. Thanks, Sokka.  Usually it's annoying, but right now, I'm impressed. I appreciate that. So, can I borrow Momo for a week?  Why do you need Momo? We need to find the Fire Navy communication tower. All the navy's movements are coordinated by messenger hawk. And every tower has to be up to date on where everyone is deployed.  So once we find the communication tower, we bust in and take the information we need.  Not exactly. We need to be stealthy and make sure no one spots us, otherwise they'll warn the Southern Raiders long before we reach them. Okay, Southern Raiders. Bam. On patrol near Whaletail Island.  Whaletail Island, here we come. You should get some rest. We'll be there in a few hours. You'll need all your strength. Oh, don't you worry about my strength. I have plenty. I'm not the helpless little girl I was when they came. I'm going to find Mom. Mom! Just let her go and I'll give you the information you want. You heard your mother. Get out of here! Mommy, I'm scared. Go find your dad, sweetie. I'll handle this.  I ran as fast as I could.  Dad, Dad! Please, I think Mom's in trouble! There's a man in our house! Kya! But we were too late. When we got there, the man was gone. And so was she. Your mother was a brave woman.  I know. There! See those sea raven flags? It's the Southern Raiders.  Let's do this. So there I was, and I was like, 'You know ...' This is it, Katara. Are you ready to face him? Who are you? You don't remember her? You will soon, trust me. What's ... happening to me? Think back. Think back to your last raid on the Southern Water Tribe.  I don't know what you're talking about. Please, I don't know!  Don't lie! You look her in the eye and you tell me you don't remember what you did. It's not him. He's not the man. What? What do you mean he's not? He's the leader of the Southern Raiders! He has to be the guy! If you're not the man we're looking for, who is? You must be looking for Yon Rha. He retired four years ago. Yon Rha! You lazy piece of work, I need something.  Yes, Mother. What is it? The tomato-carrots from your garden are too hard for my gums. I need something soft and juicy! Would you like something else from the garden? I would be happy to ...  Forget your stupid garden! Get your grimy hind to the market and buy me some real food!  Hello? Did you see someone? Hello? Is someone there? That was him. That was the monster. Nobody sneaks up on me without getting burned!  We weren't behind the bush. And I wouldn't try firebending again!  Whoever you are, take my money. Take whatever you want. I'll cooperate. Do you know who I am? No. I'm not sure. Oh, you better remember me like your life depends on it! Why don't you take a closer look?   Yes, yes, I remember you now. You're that little Water Tribe girl. Just let her go and I'll give you the information you want. You heard your mother. Get out of here!  Mommy, I'm scared. Go find your dad, sweetie. I'll handle this. Now tell me, who is it? Who's the waterbender? There are no waterbenders here. The Fire Nation took them all away a long time ago. You're lying. My source says there's one waterbender left in the Southern Water Tribe. We're not leaving until we find the waterbender! If I tell you, do you promise to leave the rest of the village alone? It's me. Take me as your prisoner.  I'm afraid I'm not taking prisoners today ... She lied to you! She was protecting the last waterbender!  What? Who?  Me!  I did a bad thing! I know I did and you deserve revenge, so why don't you take my mother? That would be fair!   I always wondered what kind of person could do such a thing, but now that I see you, I think I understand. There's just nothing inside you, nothing at all. You're pathetic and sad and empty.  Please, spare me!  But as much as I hate you ... I just can't do it. Katara? Are you okay? I'm doing fine. Zuko told me what you did. Or what you didn't do, I guess. I'm proud of you. I wanted to do it. I wanted to take out all my anger at him, but I couldn't. I don't know if it's because I'm too weak to do it or because I'm strong enough not to. You did the right thing. Forgiveness is the first step you have to take to begin healing.  But I didn't forgive him. I'll never forgive him. But I am ready to forgive you. You were right about what Katara needed. Violence wasn't the answer. It never is. Then I have a question for you. What are you gonna do when you face my father?  We need you, Aang.  I need you, too.  Be careful, guys! Guys?  Gyatso?  Why did you disappear?  I didn't mean to.  We need you, Aang.  We need you, Aang. We need you. We need you, Aang. We need you.  What's going on? Did we get captured again?  It's nothing. I just had a bad dream. Go back to sleep.  Don't have to tell me twice.  Are you all right, Aang?  I'm okay. You seem to be having a lot of nightmares lately. You want to tell me about it?  I think I just need some rest.  You guys want to hear about my dream? That's okay. I didn't want to talk about it anyway. Look at those clear skies, buddy! Should be some smooth flying.  Well, we better smoothly fly ourselves to a market, 'cause we're out of food.  Guys, wait. This was in my dream. We shouldn't go to the market.  What happened in your dream?  Food eats people! Also, Momo could talk. You said some very unkind things. There is a storm coming. A big one. You're out of your mind, Uncle. The weather's perfect. There's not a cloud in sight. A storm is approaching from the north. I suggest we alter our course and head southwest.  We know the Avatar is traveling northward, so we will do the same.  Prince Zuko, consider the safety of the crew.  The safety of the crew doesn't matter! Finding the Avatar is far more important than any individual's safety.  He doesn't mean that. He's just all worked up.  Ahhh, it's good. It's perfect, I'm telling you!  I don't know if I like the sound of that swishing.  Swishing means it's ripe! It's the ripe juices swishing around, eh?  I think it's true, Katara. Swishing means it's ripe.  I just realized we're out of money anyway.  Awww! Out of food and out of money. Now what are we supposed to do? You could get a job, smart guy. We shouldn't go out there! Please, the fish can wait. There's going to be a terrible storm.  You're crazy. It's a nice day: No clouds, no winds, no nothing. So quit your nagging, woman.  Maybe we should find some shelter?  Are you kidding? Shelter from what? My joints say there's going to be a storm! A bad one. Well, it's your joints against my brain. Then I hope your brain can find someone else to haul that fish, 'cause I ain't comin'. Then I'll find a new fish hauler and pay him double what you get! How do you like that?  I'll go. You're hired!   What? You said get a job ... and he's .  Double? Who told you that nonsense? Looks like your uncle was right about the storm after all.  Lucky guess.  Lieutenant! You'd better learn some respect – or I will teach it to you.  What do you know about respect? The way you talk to everyone around here, from your hard-working crew to your esteemed uncle, shows you know nothing about respect! You don't care about anyone but yourself! Then again, what should I expect from a spoiled prince? Easy now. Enough! We're all a bit tired from being at sea so long. I'm sure after a bowl of noodles, everyone will feel much better. I don't need your help keeping order on my ship. Sokka, maybe this isn't such a good idea. Look at the sky. I said I was going to do this job. I can't back out just because of some bad weather. The boy with the tattoos has some sense. You should listen to him! Boy with tattoos? Airbender tattoos. Well, I'll be a hog monkey's uncle. You're the Avatar, ain't ya? That's right.  Well, don't be so smiley about it. The Avatar disappeared for a hundred years! You turned your back on the world! Don't yell at him! Aang would never turn his back on anyone. Oh, he wouldn't, huh? Then I guess I must have imagined the last hundred years of war and suffering.  Aang is the bravest person I know. He's done nothing but help people and save lives since I met him. It's not his fault he disappeared, right Aang? Aang, what's wrong? That's right! Keep flying! You're a horrible old man! Appa, yip yip! Hey! They left without saying good-bye! Your friends ain't too polite, are they? I know! This one time, I was ...  Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Get below deck!  I'm sorry for running away. It's okay. That fisherman was way out of line. Actually, he wasn't.  What do you mean?  I don't want to talk about it. It has to do with your dream, doesn't it? Talk to me. Well, it's kind of a long story. I'm going to try to get a little fire going. I'll never forget the day the monks told me I was the Avatar. I was playing with some other kids just outside the South Wall. I was trying to teach them how to do the air scooter. First you got to form the ball, then you got to get on quick. Okay, here goes. You kind of have to balance on it like it's a top. Man, that's hard. Where'd you learn that trick, Aang? I made it up. Wow! Aang, come with us. We need to speak with you. How do you know it's me? We have known you were the Avatar for some time. Do you remember these? Those were some of my favorite toys when I was little!  You chose them from among thousands of toys, Aang. The toys you picked were the four Avatar relics. These items belonged to Avatars past. Your own past lives. I just chose them because they seemed fun. You chose them because they were familiar. Normally we would have told you of your identity when you turned sixteen, but there are troubling signs. Storm clouds are gathering. I fear that war may be upon us, young Avatar. We need you, Aang. I'm sick of taking his orders! I'm tired of chasing his Avatar! I mean, who does Zuko think he is? Do you really want to know? General Iroh. We were just-  It's okay. May I join you? Of course, sir.   Try to understand. My nephew is a complicated young man. He has been through much. Let me in!   Prince Zuko, what's wrong? I want to go into the war chamber  but the guard won't let me pass!   You're not missing anything, trust me. These meetings are dreadfully boring. If I'm going to rule this nation one day, don't you think I need to start learning as much as I can? Very well. But you must promise not to speak.  These old folks are a bit sensitive, you know?   Thank you, Uncle. The Earth Kingdom defenses are concentrated here. A dangerous battalion of their strongest earthbenders and fiercest warriors. So I am recommending the forty-first division. But the forty-first is entirely new recruits. How do you expect them to defeat a powerful Earth Kingdom battalion?  . They'll be used as a distraction while we mount an attack from the rear. What better to use as bait than fresh meat?  You can't sacrifice an entire division like that! Those soldiers love and defend our nation! How can you betray them? Zuko was right, you see,  but it was not his place to speak out. And there were dire consequences.   So you were upset that you were the Avatar? Why wouldn't you be excited about it? Well, I didn't know how to feel about it. All I knew was that after I found out, everything began changing. Hey, not bad! You guys have been practicing! Not only that! We made up a game you can play with the air scooters! Great! What's going on? Now that you're the Avatar, it's kind of an unfair advantage for whichever team you're on. But I'm still the same! Nothing's changed! So, what? I can't play? That's the only fair way. Oh, okay. Sorry, Aang. Okay. Now, who wants Jinju on their team? Very interesting move, young one. What do you mean? Hey! You're playing games with him? The Avatar should be training! Aang has already trained enough for today. Time is short. Come with me. I must test you on some high level techniques. No. As long as I'm his guardian, I will decide when he trains ... and when he gets his butt kicked at Pai Sho. Hmph. After Zuko's outburst in the meeting, the Fire Lord became very angry with him. He said the challenge against the general was an act of complete disrespect! And there was only one way to resolve this. Agni Kai. A fire duel. That's right. Zuko looked upon the old general he had insulted and declared that he was not afraid. But Zuko misunderstood. When he turned to face his opponent, he was surprised to see it was not the general. Zuko had spoken out against the general's plan, but by doing so in the Fire Lord's war room, it was the Fire Lord whom he had disrespected. Zuko would have to duel his own father. Then, just when I was feeling better, something worse happened. Aang needs to have freedom and fun. He needs to grow up as a normal boy. You cannot keep protecting him from his destiny. Gyatso, I know you mean well, but you are letting your affection for the boy cloud your judgment. All I want is what is best for him. But what we need is what's best for the world. You and Aang must be separated! The Avatar will be sent away to the Eastern Air Temple to complete his training. That's awful, Aang. I don't know what to say.  How could they do that to me? They wanted to take away everything I knew and everyone I loved!  Whoa! Hot cinders! I'm sorry I got so mad. You have the right to be angry after the monks sent you away like that. Well, that's not exactly what happened. I was afraid and confused. I didn't know what to do. Aang, I'm not going to let them take you away from me. Aang?   I never saw Gyatso again. Next thing I knew, I was waking up in your arms after you found me in the iceberg. You ran away. And then the Fire Nation attacked our temple. My people needed me and I wasn't there to help. You don't know what would have-. The world needed me and I wasn't there to help. Aang ... The fisherman was right! I did turn my back on the world! You're being too hard on yourself, even if you did run away. I think it was meant to be. If you had stayed, you would have been killed along with all the other airbenders. You don't know that. I know it was meant to be this way. The world needs you now. You give people hope. When Prince Zuko saw that it was his father who had come to duel him, he begged for mercy.  Please, Father. I only had the Fire Nation's best interest at heart. I'm sorry I spoke out of turn!  You will fight for your honor.   I meant you no disrespect. I am your loyal son.  Rise and fight, Prince Zuko! I fight you. You will learn respect,  and suffering will be your teacher.  I looked away. I always thought that Prince Zuko was in a training accident. It was no accident. After the duel, the Fire Lord said that by refusing to fight, Zuko had shown shameful weakness. As punishment, he was banished and sent to capture the Avatar. Only then could he return with his honor. So that's why he's so obsessed. Capturing the Avatar is the only chance he has of things returning to normal. Things will never return to normal. But the important thing is the Avatar gives Zuko hope. Help! Oh, please help!  It's okay. You're safe. But my husband isn't. What do you mean? Where's Sokka? They haven't returned! They should have been back by now! And this storm is becoming a typhoon! They're caught out at sea! I'm going to find him! I'm going with you! I'm staying here. We'll be back soon. I promise. Where were we hit? I don't know! Look! The helmsman! Where are they? Come on, Appa! The boat! There! The Avatar! What do you want to do, sir? Let him go. We need to get this ship to safety. Then we must head directly into the eye of the storm. I'm too young to die! I'm not, but I still don't wanna! Hang onto the rope. Uncle, I'm sorry. Your apology is accepted. Oh, you're alive! You owe this boy an apology! He doesn't have to apologize. What if, instead of an apology, I give him a free fish and we call it even? Actually, I don't eat meat. Fish ain't meat! Seriously, you're still going to pay me, right? Katara, I think you were right before. I'm done dwelling on the past. Really? I can't make guesses about what would have turned out if I hadn't run away. I'm here now and I'm going to make the most out of it. I don't think you're gonna have those nightmares anymore. And if you weren't here now, well, I guess I wouldn't be either. Thank you for saving my life, Avatar. Do you hear that? It stopped raining. Appa!  Spare coins for weary travelers?  This is humiliating! We're royalty! These people should be giving us whatever we want. They will if you ask nicely. Spare change for a hungry old man?  Aw, here you go. The coin is appreciated, but not as much as your smile!  How about some entertainment in exchange for ... a gold piece?   We're not performers.  Not professional anyway. It's a long, long way to Ba Sing Se, but the girls in the city, they look so pretty!  Come on, we're talking a gold piece here! Let's see some action! Dance!  They kiss so sweet that you really got to meet the girls from Ba Sing Se!  Ha, ha! Nothing like a fat man dancing for his dinner! Here ya go!   Such a kind man.  Hey, you taking us down for a reason? Aang, why are we going down?  What? I didn't even notice. Are you noticing now?  Is something wrong?  I know this is going to sound weird, but I think the swamp is calling to me.  Is it telling you where we can get something to eat? No, I ... I think it wants us to land there.  No offense to the swamp, but I don't see any land there to land on. I don't know. Bumi said to learn earthbending I would have to wait and listen, and now I'm actually hearing the earth. Do you want me to ignore it? Yes. I don't know. There's something ominous about that place. See, even Appa and Momo don't like it here.  Okay, since everyone feels so strongly about this, bye swamp. Yip, Yip!  You better throw in an extra "yip"! We gotta move!  Where's Appa and Momo? Appa! Momo!  Sokka, you've got an elbow leech.  Where? Where?  Where do you think?  Why do things keep attaching to me?! You couldn't find them?  No, and the tornado ... it just disappeared.  We better speed things up.  Maybe we should be a little nicer to the swamp.  Aang, these are just plants. Do you want me to say "please" and "thank you" as I swing my machete back and forth? Maybe you should listen to Aang. Something about this place feels ...  I'm sure there are lots of things that are alive here and if we don't wanna wind up getting eaten by them, we need to find Appa as fast as we can.  Appa! Momo! There's no way they can hear us and no way we can see them. We'll have to make camp for the night. What was that? Nothing, just swamp gas. Look, there's nothing supernatural going on here.  I think we should build a fire. Sokka, the longer we're here, the more I think you shouldn't be doing do that. No, I asked the swamp. It said this was fine. Right, swamp? "No problem, Sokka!" Does anyone else get the feeling that we're being watched? Please, we're all alone out here. Except for them.  Right, except for them. Guys? What'd you reckon make a track like that, Tho? Don't know, Due. Some'in with six legs. Pretty big'uns too. Leaves a nice, wide trail to folla'. You know what's at the end of that trail?  Dinner.  Aang! Sokka! Hello? Hello? Can you help me? Mom? Mom! I can't believe ... Aang! Stupid swamp! Dumb, ugly vines! Katara! You think you're so tough, huh? Hello? Yue? This is just a trick of the light ... swamp gas ... I ... hit my head running away last night. I'm going crazy.   You didn't protect me. Katara! Appa! Hello? Who are you? Hey, come back!  Look at that Tho. Is that a little hairy fella ridin' that thing? No, that's what they call a "lemoo". Saw one at a traveling show once. Real smart they say. Bet he tastes a lot like possum chicken. You think everything tastes like possum chicken. C'mon now, fellas. Just a little closer. Nice and easy. Nothing to worry about. We just fixin' to eat ya.  What'd you say that fer?  Well, we are! But you don't have to tell 'em that.  Well how'd I know they'd understand me? Come on! Who are you?  What do you guys think you're doing!? I've been looking all over for you!  Well, I've been wandering around looking for you!  I was chasing some girl. What girl?  I don't know. I heard laughing and I saw some girl in a fancy dress.  Well, there must be a tea party here and we just didn't get our invitations! I thought I saw Mom. Look, we were all just scared and hungry and our minds were playing tricks on us. That's why we all saw things out here.  You saw something too?  I thought I saw Yue. But, that doesn't prove anything. Look, I think about her all the time, and you saw Mom, someone you miss a lot. What about me? I didn't know the girl I saw. And all our visions led us right here. Okay ... so where's here? The middle of the swamp? Yeah, the center ... it's the heart of the swamp. It's been calling us here. I knew it. It's just a tree. It can't call anyone. For the last time, there's nothing after us and there's nothing magical happening here. Now, what would a lemoo need a shirt fer? There's someone in there! He's bending the vines!  Why did you call me here if you just wanted to kill us!? Wait! I didn't call you here.  We were flying over and I heard something calling to me, telling me to land. He's the Avatar. Stuff like that happens to us a lot. The Avatar? Come with me. So, who are you then?  I protect the swamp from folks that want to hurt it, like this fella with his big knife. See, completely reasonable. Not a monster, just a regular guy defending his home. Nothing mystical about it. Oh the swamp is a mystical place all right. It's sacred. I reached enlightenment right here under the banyan-grove tree. I heard it calling me, just like you did.  Sure you did. It seems real chatty.  See this whole swamp is actually just one tree spread out over miles. Branches spread and sink, take root, and spread some more. One big, living organism. Just like the entire world.  I get how the tree is one big thing, but the whole world? Sure. You think you're any different from me or your friends or this tree? If you listen hard enough, you can hear every living thing breathing together. You can feel everything growing. We're all living together, even if most folks don't act like it. We all have the same roots and we are all branches of the same tree.  But what did our visions mean? In the swamp, we see visions of people we've lost, people we loved, folks we think are gone. But the swamp tells us they're not. We're still connected to them. Time is an illusion and so is death. But what about my vision? It was someone I had never met. You're the Avatar. You tell me.  Time is an illusion. So, it's someone I will meet. Sorry to interrupt the lesson, but we still need to find Appa and Momo. I think I know how to find them. Everything is connected. Come on! We've got to hurry!  Set my lines by the river bed! Caught ten fish and I killed 'em dead! Cut 'em and gut 'em and I tossed the heads in the water to keep them catgators fed. Appa! We're under attack! Hey, you guys are waterbenders! You too! That means we're kin! Hey Huu! How you been? You know, scared some folks, swung some vines, the usual. Huu? How you like that possum chicken? Tastes just like arctic hen. So why were you guys so interested in eating Appa? You've got plenty of those big things wandering around. You want me to eat old Slim? He's like a member of the family! Nice Slim!  Oh, he don't eat no bugs! That's people food. Where'd you say you was from?  The South Pole. Didn't know there was waterbenders anywhere but here. They got a nice swamp there, do they? No, it's all ice and snow. Hmm. No wonder you left.  Well, I hope you realize now that nothing strange was going on here. Just a bunch of greasy people living in a swamp. What about the visions? I told you, we were hungry. I'm eating a giant bug!  But what about when the tree showed me where Appa and Momo were? That's Avatar stuff, that doesn't count. The only thing I can't figure out is how you made that tornado that sucked us down. I can't do anything like that. I just bend the water in the plants. Well, no accounting for weather. Still, there's absolutely nothing mysterious about the swamp. Who's there? Toph! Aren't you gonna get ready for the day? I'm ready. You're not gonna wash up? You've got a little dirt on your ... everywhere, actually. You call it dirt, I call it a healthy coating of earth! Hmm ... You know what we need? A girl's day out! Do I have to?! It'll be fun! The Fancy Lady Day Spa? Sounds like my kinda place. Are you ready for some serious pampering? Sure, Katara, whatever you say. As long as they don't touch my feet. Well, that wasn't so bad. I'm not usually into that stuff but I actually feel ... girly. I'm glad. It's about time we did something fun together. Wow, great make-up. Thanks. For a clown! Don't listen to them, let's just keep walking. I think she looks cute. Like that time we put a sweater on your pet poodle monkey. Good one, Star.  Let's go, Toph.  No, no, that was a good one. Like your poodle monkey. You know what else is a good one?  Now that was funny. Those girls don't know what they're talking about. It's okay. One of the good things about being blind, is I don't have to waste my time worrying about appearance. I don't care what I look like. I'm not looking for anyone's approval. I know who I am.  That's what I really admire about you, Toph. You're so strong, and confident, and self-assured. And I know it doesn't matter, but ... You're really pretty.  I am? Yeah, you are. I'd return the compliment, but I've no idea how you look like. Thank you, Katara.  Ow! If this is for a romantic picnic, may I suggest this lavender one?  No, it's not a romantic picnic, but it is a special occasion. The moon flower likes partial shade.  Shhh. It's okay. Shhh.  Leaves from the vine, falling so slow. Like fragile, tiny shells, drifting in the foam. Little soldier boy, come marching home. Brave soldier boy, comes marching home. Hey! It is usually best to admit mistakes when they occur, and seek to restore honor.  When I'm through with you kids, the window won't be the only thing that's broken. But not this time. Run! You, give me all your money!  What are you doing? I'm mugging you!  With that stance?  Huh? What're you talking about? Just give me your money, old man!  With a poor stance, you are unbalanced, and you can be easily knocked over.   With a solid stance, you are a much more serious threat. Much better! But to tell you the truth, you do not look like the criminal type. I know. I'm ... I'm just confused. So you really think I could be a good masseur? Of course! This is so great. No one has ever believed in me.  While it is always best to believe in oneself, a little help from others can be a great blessing. Happy birthday, my son. If only I could have helped you. Leaves from the vine, falling so slow. Like fragile, tiny shells, drifting in the foam. Little soldier boy, come marching home. Brave soldier boy, comes marching home.  Hey there, fellow. You look hungry. They are hungry. The Dai Li won't give me any money because the kids stopped coming. And the kids won't come because my zoo's nasty and broke.  What kinda animal is that?  Oh, that's a rabaroo. I wish I could get her a big open prairie like she likes. I'd let her hop away to happiness.  Let's do it!  Say again? There's a big open space right outside the walls of the city. But how're you gonna transport all these wild critters? Don't worry, I'm great with animals. My cabba- Oh, forget it.  This was so much easier in my head. But you have to open this gate. Or what?  Or that!  Open the gate! Well, Mr. Zookeeper, how do you like your new facilities? Excellent job, Avatar. You should think about working with animals for a living.  Mommy, Miss Snowflake got out of the house again. Fluffykins? What are you doing down there? On second thought, you should probably stick to saving people. What's this? Through all the long night, winter moon glows with bright love, sleet her silver tears.  Ahh, poetry.  I am so sorry. Something struck me in the rear. I just ... wound up ... here. Five, seven, then five, syllables mark a haiku. Remarkable oaf.  They call me Sokka, that is in the Water Tribe. I am not an oaf.  Tittering monkey, in the spring he climbs treetops, and thinks himself tall.  Oooooh! You think you're so smart, with your fancy little words, this is not so hard. Oooooh!  Whole seasons are spent, mastering the form, the style, none calls it easy. Oooooh! I calls it easy. Like I paddle my canoe, I'll paddle yours too!  There's nuts and there's fruits. In fall the clinging plum drops, always to be squashed.  Squish, squash, sling that slang. I'm always right back at ya, like my ... boomerang!   That's right, I'm Sokka, it's pronounced with an "okka", young ladies, I rocked ya!  Uh, that's one too many syllables there, bub. Poetry ... Uncle, we have a problem. One of the customers is on to us. Don't look now but there is a girl over there at the corner table. She knows we're Fire Nation. Didn't I say don't look?!  You're right, Zuko. I've seen that girl in here quite a lot. Seems to me she has quite a little crush on you.  What?  Thank you for the tea. What's your name?   My name's Lee. My uncle and I just moved here. Hi Lee, my name's Jin. Thank you and ... well, I was wondering if you would like to go out sometime.   He'd love to! Great. I'll meet you in front of the shop at sundown. Hey. Well, look at you. You look so cute.  It took my uncle ten minutes to do my hair. So, how do you like the city so far? It's okay.  What do you like to do for fun? Nothing.  Excuse me, sir. Would you and your girlfriend care for dessert‌?  She is not my girlfriend! You have ... quite an appetite for a girl.   Umm ... thanks? So, Lee, where were you and your uncle living before you came here? Umm ... well, we've been traveling around for a long time. Oh. Why were you traveling so much? We were ... uh, part of this traveling circus. Really? What did you do? Wait, lemme guess. You juggled!  Yes, I juggled. I've always wanted to learn how to juggle. Can you show me something? I haven't practiced for a while.  It's all right. Hey, I want to show you one of my favorite places in the city. I'm so excited for you to see the Firelight Fountain. The lamps make the water sparkle and reflect in the pool in the most beautiful way. I can't believe it! They aren't lit. Close your eyes, and don't peek. Okay, now you can look.  Oh, wow, What happened? How did they light? What did you?  I've brought you something. It's a coupon for a free cup of tea. Lee, this is so sweet.  Don't thank me – it was my uncle's idea. He thinks you're our most valuable customer. Your uncle is a good teacher. I have something for you too. Now it's your turn to close your eyes. What's wrong?  It's complicated. I have to go.  How was your night, Prince Zuko? It was nice.  The only reason you should be interrupting me, is if you have news about the Avatar.  Well, there is news, Prince Zuko, but you might not like it. Don't get too upset.  Uncle, you taught me that keeping a level head is a sign of a great leader. Now, whatever you have to say, I'm sure I can take it.  Okay then. We have no idea where he is.  What!? You really should open a window in here.  Give me the map!  Well, there have been multiple sightings of the Avatar, but he is impossible to track down.  How am I going to find him, Uncle? He is clearly a master of evasive maneuvering.  You have no idea where you're going, do you? Well ... I know it's near water.  I guess we're getting close then. Momo, marbles please. Hey Katara, check out this airbending trick!  That's great, Aang.  You didn't even look.  That's great!  But I'm not doing it now.  Stop bugging her, airhead. You need to give girls space when they do their sewing.  What does me being a girl have to do with sewing?  Simple. Girls are better at fixing pants than guys and guys are better at hunting and fighting and stuff like that. It's just the natural order of things.  All done with your pants! And look what a great job I did!  Wait! I was just kidding. I can't wear these! Katara, please!  Relax, Sokka. Where we're going, you won't need any pants. We just made a pit stop yesterday. Shouldn't we get a little more flying done before we camp out?  He's right. At this rate, we won't get to the North Pole until spring.  But Appa's tired, aren't you boy?  I aren't you boy?  Yeah, that was convincing. Still, hard to argue with a ten-ton magical monster.  Look!  That's why we're here. Elephant koi, and I'm gonna ride it. Katara, you've got to watch me! Cold!  Hahaha, hahaha!  Whooh!  He looks pretty good out there.  Are you kidding? The fish is doing all the work.  No, Appa. Don't eat that!   Oh man ...  There's something in the water!  What's wrong? Aang's in trouble. Aang! Get out of there! Get back here, Aang!  Whaaaahh! Aaaah!  Whaaaahh! What was that thing? I don't know.  Well, let's not stick around to find out. Time to hit the road. Or, we could stay a while.  You three have some explaining to do.  And if you don't answer all our questions, we're throwing you back in the water with the Unagi.  Show yourselves, cowards!  Who are you? Where are the men who ambushed us?  There were no men. We ambushed you. Now tell us, who are you and what are you doing here?  Wait a second, there's no way that a bunch of girls took us down.  A bunch of girls, huh? The Unagi's gonna eat well tonight.  No, don't hurt him! He didn't mean it. My brother is just an idiot sometimes.  It's my fault. I'm sorry we came here. I wanted to ride the elephant koi.  How do we know you're not Fire Nation spies? Kyoshi stayed out of the war so far. And we intend to keep it that way!  This island is named for Kyoshi? I know Kyoshi!  Ha! How could you possibly know her? Avatar Kyoshi was born here four hundred years ago. She's been dead for centuries.  I know her because I'm the Avatar.  That's impossible! The last Avatar was an airbender who disappeared a hundred years ago.  That's me!  Throw the impostor to the Unagi!  Aang ... do some airbending.  Wow! Did you see that? Airbender!  It's true ... you are the Avatar!  Now ... check this out!  Did you hear the news? The Avatar's on Kyoshi!  Huh?  The Avatar's on Kyoshi Island? Uncle, ready the rhinos. He's not getting away from me this time.  Are you going to finish that?  I was going to save it for later!  All right! Dessert for breakfast! These people sure know how to treat an Avatar!  Mmm ... Katara you've got to try these!  Well, maybe just a bite. Sokka, what's your problem?  Not hungry.  But you're always hungry!  He's just upset because a bunch of girls kicked his butt yesterday.  They snuck up on me!  Right. And then they kicked your butt.  Sneak attacks don't count! Tie me up with ropes! I'll show them a thing or two. I'm not scared of any girls. Who do they think they are anyway? Mmm ... this is tasty. What's he so angry about? It's great here. They're giving us the royal treatment! Hey, don't get too comfortable. It's risky for us to stay in one place for very long.  I'm sure we'll be fine. Besides, did you see how happy I'm making this town? They're even cleaning up that statue in my honor! Well, it's nice to see you excited about being the Avatar. I just hope it doesn't all go to your head.  Come on, you know me better than that. I'm just a simple monk.  Hmmm ... Painting the Avatar ... that's easy enough ... Oh, there's another one ... Well, I'll make an adjustment here, and ... There's more ... well that ...  I can't believe I got beat up by a bunch of girls.  Sorry ladies, didn't mean to interrupt your dance lesson. I was just looking for somewhere to get a little workout?  Well, you're in the right place. Sorry about yesterday. I didn't know that you were friends with the Avatar.  It's all right. I mean, normally I'd hold a grudge, but seeing as you guys are a bunch of girls, I'll make an exception.  I should hope so. A big strong man like you? We wouldn't stand a chance.  True. But don't feel bad. After all, I'm the best warrior in my village.  Wow! Best warrior, huh? In your whole village? Maybe you'd be kind enough to give us a little demonstration.  Oh ... Well ... I mean ... I ...  Come on, girls! Wouldn't you like him to show us some moves? Well, if that's what you want, I'd be happy to. All right, you stand over there. Now, this may be a little tough, but try to block me.  Aw! Heh heh ... Good. Of course, I was going easy on you.  Of course.  Let's see if you can handle this!  That does it!  Anything else you want to teach us? There she is, girls. Me in a past life. Ooohhh ...  You were pretty!  Excuse me for a second, ladies.  Oh, good! Can you help me carry this back to the room? It's a little heavy.  Actually, I can't right now.  What do you mean, "you can't?" I promised the girls I'd give them a ride on Appa. Why don't you come with us? It'll be fun!  Watching you show off for a bunch of girls does not sound like fun.  Well, neither does carrying your basket.  It's not my basket. These supplies are for our trip. I told you, we have to leave Kyoshi soon.  I don't want to leave Kyoshi yet. I can't put my finger on it, but there's something I really like about this place.  What's taking you so long, Aangy?  Aangy ...  Just a second, Koko!  "Simple monk", huh? I thought you promised me that this Avatar stuff wouldn't go to your head. It didn't. You know what I think? You just don't want to come because you're   Jealous? Of what? Jealous that we're having so much fun without you.  That's ridiculous. It is a little ridiculous, but I understand.  Urch!  Uh ... Hey, Suki.  Hoping for another dance lesson?  No ... I ... well, let me explain.  Spit it out! What do you want?  I would be honored if you would teach me.  Even if I'm a girl?  I'm sorry if I insulted you earlier. I was ... wrong.  We normally don't teach outsiders, let alone boys.  Please make an exception. I won't let you down.  All right. But you have to follow all of our traditions.  Of course!  And I mean all of them.  Do I really have to wear this? It feels a little ... girly. It's a warrior's uniform, you should be proud. The silk threads symbolize the brave blood that flows through our veins. The gold insignia represents the honor of the warrior's heart.  Bravery and honor.  Hey Sokka! Nice dress!  Katara, remember how Unagi almost got me yesterday?  Yeah.  Well, I'm gonna go ride it now. It's gonna be real dangerous.  Good for you.  You're not going to stop me?  Nope. Have fun.  I will.  Great.  I know it's great.  I'm glad you know.  I'm glad you're glad.  Good!   Fine! You're not going to master it in one day. Even I'm not that good. I think I'm starting to get it. Tah!  It's not about strength. Our technique is about using your opponents' force against them. Loosen up. Think of the fan as an extension of your arm. Wait for an opening and then ...  Hmm ...  I fell on purpose to make you feel better!  I got you! Admit I got you! Okay, it was a lucky shot. Let's see if you can do it again.  What's taking so long?  I'm sure it will be here any second! What about this?  Not that again !  Where's Unagi? It's getting late.  Where're you going? Don't leave!  Sorry, Aang! Maybe next time.  Katara! You showed up!  I wanted to make sure you were safe. You really had me worried. Back there you acted like you didn't care.  I'm sorry.  Me too. I did let all that attention go to my head. I was being a jerk.  Well, get out of the water before you catch a cold, you big jerk!  On my way!  Hang on, Aang! Aang!  Zuko! I want the Avatar   Wake up, Aang!  Katara ... don't ride Unagi. Not fun.  Not bad.  Firebenders have landed on our shores! Girls, come quickly!  Hey, I'm not a ... oh, whatever!  Come out, Avatar! You can't hide from me forever! Find him. I guess training's over. Nice try, Avatar! But these little girls can't save you.  Hey! Over here! Finally! Get inside.  Look what I brought to this place. It's not your fault.  Yes, it is. These people got their town destroyed trying to protect me. Then let's get out of here. Zuko will leave Kyoshi to follow us. I know it feels wrong to run, but I think it's the only way.  I'll call Appa. There's no time to say goodbye. What about, "I'm sorry?"  For what?  I treated you like a girl when I should've treated you like a warrior.  I am a warrior. But I'm a girl, too. Now get out of here! We'll hold them off.  Appa, yip yip! Back to the ship! Don't lose sight of them!  I know it's hard, but you did the right thing. Zuko would have destroyed the whole place if we had stayed. They're going to be okay, Aang.  What are you doing?  Thank you, Avatar.  I know, I know. That was stupid and dangerous.  Yes, it was.  I'm not one to complain, but can't Appa fly any higher?  I have an idea! Why don't we all get on your back and you could fly us to the North Pole?!  I'd love to. Climb on everyone, Sokka's ready for take off.  Look, we're all just a little tired and cranky because we've been flying for two days straight.  And for what? We can't even find the Northern Water Tribe. There's nothing up here. They're waterbenders! We found the Water Tribe! He's heading north. The Northern Water Tribe. The Avatar needs to master waterbending. He's looking for a teacher.  Then what are we waiting for? Let's go get him! Patience, Captain Li. This isn't some little Earth village we can just march into. The Water Tribe is a great nation. There's a reason they've survived a hundred years of war. The frozen tundra is treacherous, the landscape itself is an icy fortress. We'll need a massive invasion force.  There it is!  The Northern Water Tribe.  We're finally here.  I can't believe how many waterbenders live up here!  We'll find a master to teach us, no problem. This place is beautiful. Yeah ... she is ...  Winter, spring ... Summer, and fall ... Winter, spring ... Summer, and fall ... Four seasons ... four loves ... Four seasons ... for love. Tonight, we celebrate the arrival of our brother and sister from the Southern Tribe. And they have brought with them, someone very special, someone whom many of us believed disappeared from the world until now ... the Avatar! We also celebrate my daughter's sixteenth birthday. Princess Yue is now of marrying age! Thank you, Father. May the great Ocean and Moon Spirits watch over us during these troubled times! Now, Master Pakku and his students will perform! Hi there. Sokka, Southern Water Tribe.  Very nice to meet you.   So ... uhhh ... you're a princess, huh? You know, back in my tribe, I'm kind of like a prince, myself.   Ha, prince of what? A lot of things! Do you mind? I'm trying to have a conversation here.  My apologies, Prince Sokka. So, it looks like I'm going to be in town for a while. I'm thinking ... maybe we could ... do an activity, together?  Do an activity? Very smooth ... Master Pakku, meet your newest student, the Avatar.  Just because you're destined to save the world, don't expect any special treatment. My friend and I can't wait to start training with you! After we relax for a couple of days. If you want to relax, then I suggest visiting a tropical island. If not, I'll see you both at sunrise. Good night. For the last time, I'm not playing the tsungi horn! No, it's about our plans. There's a bit of a problem. I'm taking your crew.  What?!  I've recruited them for a little expedition to the North Pole. Uncle, is that true? I'm afraid so. He's taking everyone ... even the cook. Sorry you won't be there to watch me capture the Avatar. But I can't have you getting in my way again.  No! I didn't know you were skilled with broadswords, Prince Zuko. I'm not. They're antiques. Just decorative. Have you heard of the Blue Spirit, General Iroh? Just rumors. I don't think he is real. He's real, all right. He's a criminal, and an enemy of the Fire Nation. But I have a feeling justice will catch up with him soon. General Iroh, the offer to join my mission still stands ... if you change your mind.  I've waited for this day my whole life. I finally get to learn from a real waterbending master! Good morning, Master Pakku!  No, please, march right in. I'm not concentrating or anything. Uhhh ... This is my friend, Katara. The one I told you about? I'm sorry, I think there's been a misunderstanding. You didn't tell me your friend was a girl. In our tribe, it is forbidden for women to learn waterbending.  What do you mean you won't teach me? I didn't travel across the entire world so you could tell me no! No. But there must be other female waterbenders in your tribe! Here, the women learn from Yagoda to use their waterbending to heal. I'm sure she would be happy to take you as her student, despite your bad attitude. I don't want to heal, I want to fight! I can see that. But our tribe has customs, rules.  Well, your rules stink!  Yeah, they're not fair! If you won't teach Katara, then ... Then what? Then I won't learn from you! Well, have fun teaching yourself! I'm sure you'll do a great job. Wait! Aang didn't mean that! You can't risk your training for me. You have to learn from Master Pakku, even if he is a big jerk. Why don't we get started, then?  Princess Yue, good morning! How about that picnic last night? Boy, your dad sure does know how to throw a party. I'm happy you enjoyed yourself. Well, it wasn't as much fun after you left. So, I'm still hoping we can see more of each other. Do an activity, you mean? Yes ... at a place ... for some time.  I'd love to. I'll meet you on that bridge tonight.  Great! I'll see you– Ah!   Sorry.  That's okay, it was worth it. See you tonight. I'm very impressed. You all seem highly qualified for the mission I have in mind. That's some tasty gold. What do you need us to do? I believe you're acquainted with Prince Zuko. Uhhh ... Hi. Are you Yagoda? Are you here for the healing lesson?  I guess I am. Welcome ... welcome! You're moving the water around, but you're not feeling the push and pull. I'm trying ...  Maybe that move is too advanced for you. Why don't you try an easier one? Thanks for the lesson. So, who's the lucky boy? Huh? Your betrothal necklace. You're getting married, right?  Ah ... No. I don't think I'm ready for that yet. My grandmother gave my mother this necklace and my mother passed it down to me. I recognize this carving! I don't know why I didn't realize sooner; you're the spitting image of Kanna!  Wait, how do you know my Gran-Gran's name? When I was about your age, I was friends with Kanna. She was born here in the Northern Tribe. She never told me. Your grandmother had an arranged marriage with a young waterbender. He carved that necklace for her. If Gran-Gran was engaged, why did she leave? I don't know. That's always been a mystery to me. She left without saying goodbye. Good luck!  The crew wanted me to wish you safe travels.  Good riddance to those traitors. It's a lovely night for a walk. Why don't you join me? It would clear your head. Or just stay in your room and sit in the dark. Whatever makes you happy. Careful with the blasting jelly!  Uncle? Uncle, is that you?  Zuko! Zuko ... Hi, Princess Yue. I made you something. I carved it myself. It's a bear. Actually, it's supposed to be a fish. See, it has a fin. Oh. I'm sorry, I made a mistake. I shouldn't have asked you to come here.  How's warrior training going?  That bad? No, it's Princess Yue. I don't get it, one minute she wants to go out with me, and the next, she's telling me to get lost. So, how's waterbending training? Master Poophead won't teach her because she's a girl. Why don't you just teach her, Aang?  Why didn't I think of that? At night, you can teach me whatever moves you learn from Master Pakku! That way, you have someone to practice with, and I get to learn waterbending! Everyone's happy! I'm not happy. But you're never happy. Come on, Aang.  Master Pakku said this move is all about sinking and floating.   I got it! That was amazing! That wasn't me. I was just showing Katara a few moves. You have disrespected me, my teachings, and my entire culture. I'm sorry, I ... You are no longer welcome as my student. What do you want me to do? Force Master Pakku to take Aang back as his student? Yes ... please! I suspect he might change his mind, if you swallow your pride and apologize to him. Fine. I'm waiting, little girl. No. No way am I apologizing to a sour old man like you!  Uhhh ... Katara? I'll be outside if you're man enough to fight me. I'm sure she didn't mean that. Yeah, I think she did. I'm devastated to hear about Prince Zuko. Just ... devastated. The Fire Lord will not be pleased when he learns who was responsible. You know who was behind the attack? Yes ... pirates. We had a run-in with them a while back. They wanted revenge.  So, have you reconsidered my offer? Yes, I accept. It will be an honor to serve as your general. To the Fire Nation! To victory! Are you crazy, Katara? You're not going to win this fight!  I know! I don't care! You don't have to do this for me. I can find another teacher. I'm not doing it for you! Someone needs to slap some sense into that guy! So, you decided to show up? Aren't you going to fight? Go back to the healing huts with the other women where you belong. Fine. You want to learn to fight so bad? Study closely! Don't worry, I'm not going to hurt you!  You can't knock me down! Go, Katara! Well, I'm impressed. You are an excellent waterbender. But you still won't teach me, will you? No. This fight is over. Come back here. I'm not finished yet! Yes, you are. This is my necklace ... No, it's not. It's mine! Give it back! I made this sixty years ago for the love of my life ... for Kanna.  My Gran-Gran was supposed to marry you? Our plan is working perfectly. Zhao doesn't suspect a thing. You didn't have to do this. No nephew of mine is going to stow away on a ship without some backup. Thank you, Uncle. Someone's coming. Stay hidden until we get to the North Pole and the Avatar will be yours. Good luck.  I carved this necklace for your grandmother when we got engaged. I thought we would have a long, happy life together. I loved her. But she didn't love you, did she? It was an arranged marriage. Gran-Gran wouldn't let your tribe's stupid customs run her life. That's why she left. It must have taken a lot of courage.  Go get her. What do you want from me? Nothing. I just want you to know, I think you're beautiful, and, I never thought a girl like you would even notice a guy like me. You don't understand. No, no. See, that's the thing. I think I do understand now. You're a Princess, and I'm ... I'm just a Southern peasant. No, Sokka ... It's okay. You don't have to say anything. I'll see you around, okay? Okay, now I'm really confused. Happy, but confused. I do like you, a lot. But we can't be together, and not for the reason you think. It's because ... I'm engaged. I'm sorry.  Not bad, not bad. Keep practicing and maybe you'll get it by the time you're my age. Hey, Katara! What do you think you're doing? It's past sunrise. You're late. Good to see you here. You, too. My fleet is ready. Set a course for the Northern Water Tribe.  Would you sit down? If we hit a bump, you'll go flying off. What's bugging you anyway?  It's what Avatar Roku said. I'm supposed to master all four elements before that comet arrives.  Well, let's see. You pretty much mastered airbending and that only took you a hundred and twelve years. I'm sure you can master three more elements by next summer.  I haven't even started waterbending and we're still weeks away from the North Pole. What am I gonna do?  Calm down, it's going to be okay. If you want, I can try to teach you some of the stuff I know.  You'd do that?  We'll need to find a good source of water first.  Maybe we can find a puddle for you to splash in.  Nice puddle.  Yeah! Don't start without me, boy!   Remember the reason we're here.  Oh right. Time to practice waterbending.   Great. So what am I supposed to do? You could ... clean the gunk out of Appa's toes.   So, while you guys are playing in the water, I'm supposed to be hard at work picking mud out of a giant bison's feet?  Mud and bugs! Okay.   Someone's changing our course.  What is the meaning of this mutiny? No one told you to change course!  Actually, someone did. I assure you, it is a matter of utmost importance, Prince Zuko.   Is it something to do with the Avatar? Even more urgent. It seems, I- -I have lost my lotus tile.   Lotus tile? For my Pai Sho game. Most people think the lotus tile insignificant, but it is essential for the unusual strategy that I employ.  You've changed our course for a stupid lotus tile? See, you, like most people, underestimate it's value. Just give me ten minutes to check the merchants at this port of call. Hopefully, they will have the lotus tile in stock and I can get on with my life. I'm lucky to have such an understanding nephew. Yeah, don't get too happy. You've got to do me next.  This is a pretty basic move, but it still took me months to perfect. So don't get frustrated if you don't get it right away. Just push and pull the water like this. The key is getting the wrist movement right.  Like this?   That's almost right. If you keep practicing I'm sure eventually— Hey, I'm bending it already!   Wow, I can't believe you got that so quickly. It took me two months to learn that move.  Well, you had to figure it all on your own. I'm lucky enough to have a great teacher.  Thanks. So, what's next? This is a more difficult move. I call it streaming the water. It's harder than it looks, so don't be disappointed if- Nice work. Though the over-the-head flare was unnecessary. Sorry. Well, don't stop now! Keep 'em coming!  Well I kind of know this one other move, but it's pretty hard. I haven't even totally figured it out yet. The idea is to create a big, powerful wave.  So, like this?   Aang?!   Looks like I got the hang of that move! What else do you got?  That's enough practicing for today.  Yeah, I'll say! You just "practiced" our supplies down the river.   Uh, sorry. I'm sure we can find somewhere to replace all this stuff. My life was hard enough when you were just an airbender.   We've got exactly three copper pieces left from the money that King Bumi gave us. Let's spend it wisely. Uh, make that two copper pieces, Sokka. I couldn't say no to this whistle!   It doesn't even work. See? Even Momo thinks it's a piece of junk. No offense Aang, but I'll hold the money from now on.   Earth Nation! Fire Nation! Water Nation! So long as bargains are your inclination, you're welcome here! Don't be shy, come on by! Oh! You there, I can see from your clothing that you're world-traveling types. Perhaps I can interest you in some exotic curios?  Sure! What are curios?  I'm not entirely sure. But we got 'em!   Huh?  I've never seen such a fine specimen of lemur. That beast would fetch me a hefty sum if you'd be interested in bartering.   Momo's not for sale.  Look at this, Aang. It's a waterbending scroll! Check out these crazy moves.  Where did you get a waterbending scroll?  Let's just say I got it up North, at a most reasonable price, free.   Wait a minute ... Sea loving traders, with suspiciously acquired merchandise, and pet reptile birds? You guys are pirates!  We prefer to think of ourselves as "high risk traders." So, how much for the, uh, traded scroll? I've already got a buyer, a nobleman in the Earth Kingdom. Unless of course, you kids have two hundred gold pieces on you right now.  I know how to deal with these guys, Katara. Pirates love to haggle. Watch and learn. Let's say to the price of, one copper piece!   The price is two hundred gold pieces. I don't haggle on items this rare.  Okay, two copper pieces!  It's not as amusing the second time, boy!  Aang, can we get out of here? I feel like we're getting weird looks. Aye, we be casting off now!  What was that all about, Katara? Yeah, I was just starting to browse through their boomerang collection.  I'll just feel a lot better once we get away from here. Hey you! Get back here!  Well, well. Look who's come to their senses. Told you the haggling would pay off.  I don't think these pirates are here to trade with us.  This way. Let's cut 'em off!  Whoa!   My cabbages! This place is worse than Omashu! I hope that lemur of yours has nine lives!  Now, who gets to taste the steel of my blade first? No thanks. Grab on tight! Aang! I thought we were running away from the pirates!  Just hang on!   I used to kind of look up to pirates, but those guys are terrible.  I know. That's why I took this.   No way!  Isn't it great? No wonder they were trying to hack us up! You stole their waterbending scroll!  I prefer to think of it as high risk trading.  Good one, Katara. Sokka, where do you think they got it? They stole it from a waterbender! It doesn't matter. You put all of our lives in danger just so you could learn some stupid, fancy splashes. These are real waterbending forms. You know how crucial it is for Aang to learn waterbending!  Whatever. Well, what's done is done. We have it, we might as well learn from it. I've checked all the shops on this pier. Not a lotus tile in the entire marketplace. It's good to know this trip was a complete waste of time ! Quite the contrary. I always say, the only thing better than finding something you are looking for is finding something you weren't looking for at a great bargain!  You bought a tsungi horn? For music night on the ship. Now, if we only had some woodwinds. Oh, this place looks promising! Oh, that is handsome! Wouldn't it look magnificent in the galley?  We lost the Water Tribe girl and the little bald monk she was traveling with.  This monk, did he have an arrow on his head?  I just want to try this one move first and then it's all yours. Here, hold it open for me. The single water whip. Looks doable. Ow! Ha, ha, ha!  What's so funny? I'm sorry, but you deserved that. You've been duped; she's only interested in teaching herself.  Aang will get his turn once I figure out the water whip. Ugh, why can't I get this stupid move? You'll get it. You just gotta shift your weight through the stances. There, see, the key to bending is—  Will you please shut your air hole? Believe it or not your infinite wisdom gets a little old sometimes! Why don't we just throw the scroll away since you're so naturally gifted! What? Oh my gosh, Aang, I am so sorry, I don't know what came over me. But you know what, it won't happen again. Here, this is yours. I don't want to have anything to do with it anymore. It's okay Katara. What about Momo? He's the real victim here.  I'm sorry, Momo. And what about me? There was that time you— No more apologies! Shouldn't we stop to search the woods? We don't need to stop. They stole a waterbending scroll, right? Mm-hm. Then they'll be on the water.  Shhh, Momo! Go back to sleep. Shh! Ugh, ugh, ugh! Shoot! Come on water, work with me here! Okay, what if I just, ow! Stupid scroll! Okay Katara, shift your weight through the stances. No! Let go of me!   I'll save you from the pirates. Tell me where he is and I won't hurt you or your brother.  Go jump in the river! Try to understand. I need to capture him to restore something I've lost, my honor. Perhaps in exchange I can restore something you've lost.  My mother's necklace! How did you get that? I didn't steal it, if that's what you're wondering. where he is.  No! Enough of this necklace garbage! You promised a scroll! I wonder how much this is worth ... A lot, apparently. Now you help me find what I want, you'll get this back, and everyone goes home happy. Search the woods for the boy and meet back here! Fine.  Huh? Where did she go? I don't believe it.  What's wrong? She took the scroll! She's obsessed with that thing. It's just a matter of time before she gets us all in deep-  I got him, come on! Oh, what? I'm not good enough to kidnap? Ah!  Nice work. Aang, this is all my fault. No Katara, it isn't. Yeah, it kind of is.   Give me the boy. You give us the scroll. You're really gonna hand over for a stupid piece of parchment? Don't listen to him, he's trying to turn us against each other!  Your friend is the Avatar? Sure is, and I'll bet he'll fetch a lot more on the black market than that fancy scroll. Shut your mouth, you Water Tribe peasant! Yeah, Sokka, you really should shut your mouth. I'm just sayin' it's bad business sense. Think how much the Fire Lord would pay for the Avatar. You guys would be set for life.  Keep the scroll; we can buy a hundred with the reward we'll get for the kid.  You'll regret breaking a deal with me.  Thanks, Momo. I owe you a bushel of apples.   Aang, are you there? I'm over here! Follow my voice! Where? I can't find you! I'm right here! Uh, never mind! I'll find you! Run! Katara, you're okay! Help me get this boat back in the water so we can get outta here.  We'd need a team of rhinos to budge this ship. A team of rhinos, or two waterbenders. Everybody in! Are you so busy fighting you cannot see your own ship has set sail? We have no time for your proverbs, Uncle! It's no proverb!  Bleeding hog monkeys!   Hey! That's my boat!   Maybe it should be a proverb ...  C'mon, Uncle!  Sokka, can't you make it go any faster? I don't know how. This thing wasn't made by the Water Tribe! Hey, you did the water whip! I couldn't have done it without your help. Would you two quit congratulating each other and help me out? That's good ...   Aang, look!  Oh no ... Have you lost your mind? This is no time for flute practice!  We can stop the boat! Aang, together, push and pull the water! It's working, it's slowing down! We're doing it! But we have another problem.  Jump!   I knew a bison whistle would come in handy! Thanks Appa. Yeah, we owe you one.  My boat!  Prince Zuko, you're really going to get a kick out of this. That lotus tile was in my sleeve the whole time!  Aang, I still owe you an apology. You were just so good at waterbending without really trying. I got so competitive that I put us all in danger, I'm sorry. That's okay Katara. Besides, who needs that stupid scroll anyway?  Is that really how you feel? The scroll!  First, what did you learn? Stealing is wrong. Unless it's from pirates.  Good one, Katara. This is humiliating.  You mean getting thoroughly spanked by the Fire Nation or having to walk all the way to the Western Air Temple?  Both.  Sorry guys, but Appa gets tired carrying all these people. I wonder how the rest of the troops are.  They're probably on their way to a prison. Seems like my dad just got out and now he's going back in. I miss Pipsqueak. I miss not having blisters on my feet. Hey, we're here! I can feel it! Uhhh ... I think your feet need their eyes checked. No, she's right. We are here! Wow ... it's amazing! What a stunning view. The only view I'm interested in seeing is the Avatar in chains. You know, the Avatar hasn't been seen for one hundred years. The chances of finding him here are very slim.   First we'll check each of the air temples, then we'll scour the world, searching even the most remote locations until we find him. Prince Zuko, it's only been a week since your banishment. You should take some time to heal and rest. What else would I expect to hear from the laziest man in the Fire Nation? The only way to regain my honor is to find the Avatar, so I will. It's so different from the Northern Air Temple. I wonder if there are any secret rooms.  Let's go check it out! You guys go. I think we need to talk about some things. I'll race you, Duke. I told you, it's The Duke! Why can't I go? We need to decide what we're gonna do now, and since you're the Avatar, maybe you should be a part of this.  Fair enough. So, what's the new plan? Well, if you ask me, the new plan is the old plan! You just need to master all four elements and confront the Fire Lord before the comet comes.  Oh, yeah. That's great, no problem. I'll just do that. Aang, no one said it's going to be easy. Well, it's not even gonna be possible! Where am I supposed to get a firebending teacher? We could look for Jeong Jeong!  Yeah ... right. Like we'll ever run into Jeong Jeong again.  Who's ... oh, never mind. If it's important I'll find out. Oh well, guess we can't come up with anybody. Why don't we just take a nice tour around the temple?  What's up with him? There's gotta be someone who can teach him firebending. Hello ... Zuko here, but I guess you probably already know me, sort of. Uhhh ... so, the thing is I have a lot of firebending experience, and I'm considered to be pretty good at it. Well, you've seen me, you know, when I was attacking you. Uhhh ... yeah, I guess I should apologize for that. But anyway, I'm good now. I mean, I thought I was good before, but I realize I was bad, but anyway, I think it's time I joined your group and taught the Avatar firebending. Well, what's your answer? Yeah ... that's what I'd say, too. How am I supposed to convince these people that I'm on their side? What would Uncle do? Zuko, you have to look within yourself to save yourself from your other self. Only then will your true self, reveal itself. Even when I'm talking for him I can't figure out what he means. What would Azula do? Listen, Avatar, I can join your group, or I can do something unspeakably horrible to you and your friends. Your choice. I guess I'm just not that good at impersonations. Aang, can we talk about you learning firebending now? What? The wind is too loud in my ears! Check out this loop! Aang, I think we should be making some plans about our future! Okay, we can do that while I show you the giant Pai Sho table! Oh, you're gonna love the all-day echo chamber!  I think that'll have to wait.  Hello ... Zuko here. Hey, I heard you guys flying around down there, so, I just thought I'd wait for you here. I know you must be surprised to see me here. Not really, since you've followed us all over the world. Right. Well, uhhh ... anyway ... what I wanted to tell you about is that I've changed, and I, uhhh, I'm good now, and well I think I should join your group, oh, and I can teach firebending to you. See, I, uhhh ... You want to what now? You can't possibly think that any of us would trust you, can you? I mean, how stupid do you think we are?! Yeah, all you've ever done is hunt us down and try to capture Aang! I've done some good things! I mean, I could have stolen your bison in Ba Sing Se, but I set him free. That's something!  Appa does seem to like him. He probably just covered himself in honey or something so that Appa would lick him. I'm not buying it. I can understand why you wouldn't trust me, and I know I've made some mistakes in the past. Like when you attacked our village? Or when you stole my mother's necklace and used it to track us down and capture us? Look, I admit I've some awful things. I was wrong to try to capture you, and I'm sorry that I attacked the Water Tribe. And I never should have sent that Fire Nation assassin after you. I'm going to try and stop-  Wait, you sent Combustion Man after us? Well, that's not his name, but-  Ohhh, sorry. I didn't mean to insult your friend!  He's not my friend! That guy locked me and Katara in jail and tried to blow us all up!  Why aren't you saying anything? You once said you thought we could be friends. You know I have good in me. There's no way we can trust you after everything you've done. We'll never let you join us. You need to get out of here. Now. I'm trying to explain that I'm not that person anymore! Either you leave, or we attack. If you won't accept me as a friend, then maybe you'll take me as a prisoner.  No, we won't! Get out of here, and don't come back! And if we ever see you again, well, we'd better not see you again! Uggh! I can't believe how stupid I am! I mean, what was I thinking? Telling them I sent an assassin after them? Why didn't I just say Azula did that? They would have believed that! Stupid! Uggh! Why would he try to fool us like that? Obviously he wants to lead us into some kind of trap. This is just like when we were in prison together at Ba Sing Se. He starts talking about his mother and making it seem like he's an actual human being with feelings. He wants you to trust and feel sorry for him so you let your guard down, then he strikes. The thing is, it worked. I did feel sorry for him. I felt like he was really confused and hurt, but obviously, when the time came, he made his choice, and we paid the price. We can't trust him. I kind of have a confession to make. Remember when you two were sick and I got captured by Zhao? And you made us suck on frozen frogs? How could I forget? I had a wart on the flap that hangs down from the back of my throat for a month! Sokka, I looked at it, and I told you, there was nothing there! I could feel it! It's my throatal flap! Anyway, when Zhao had me chained up, it was Zuko who came in and got me out. He risked his life to save me. No way! I'm sure he only did it so he could capture you himself! Yeah, face it Aang, you're nothing but a big prize to him. You're probably right. And what was all that crazy stuff about setting Appa free? What a liar! Actually, he wasn't lying.  Oh, hooray! In a lifetime of evil, at least he didn't add animal cruelty to the list. I'm just saying that, considering his messed-up family and how he was raised, he could have turned out a lot worse.  You're right, Toph! Let's go find him and give him a medal. The "not as much of a jerk as you could have been" award! All I know is that while he was talking to us, he was sincere. Maybe you're all just letting your hurt feelings keep you from thinking clearly. Easy for you to say! You weren't there when he had us attacked by pirates! Or when he burned down Kyoshi Island! Or when he tried to capture me at the Fire Temple! Why would you even try to defend him?  Because Katara, you're all ignoring one crucial fact: Aang needs a firebending teacher! We can't think of a single person in the world to do the job! Now one shows up on a silver platter, and you won't even think about it?  I'm having Zuko as my teacher! You're darn right you're not, buddy. Well, I guess that settles that. Ergh! I'm beginning to wonder who's really the blind one around here!  Who's there? Stay back!  It's me! Ow! You burned my feet! I'm sorry, it was a mistake!  Get away from me!  Let me help you! I'm sorry!  Get off me, get off me!  I didn't know it was you! Uggh, come back! Uggh! Why am I so bad at being good?  Has anyone seen Toph? I haven't seen her since she stormed off yesterday. Maybe she's just exploring the air temple. There are some pretty fun spots to practice earthbending. I think we should go look for her.  Let her have fun with her rocks. I'm in no rush to have her yelling at us again. We can go check for her!  Yeah! I want to ride that tunnel down to the Hall of Statues again. It will work a lot better now that I fixed my brakes.  Toph! What happened? My feet got burned! Oh no, what happened? I just told you, my feet got burned! I meant, how. Well, I kind of went to see Zuko last night.  You what? Zuko? Uhhh ...! I thought he could be helpful to us. And if I talked to him, maybe we could work something out. So he attacked you? Well, he did, and he didn't. It was sort of an accident. But he did firebend at you?  Yes. See? You trusted Zuko, and you got burned. Literally! It's gonna take a while for your feet to get better. I wish I could have worked on them sooner. Yeah, me too. Zuko's clearly too dangerous to be left alone. We're gonna have to go after him. I hate to go looking for a fight, but you're right. After what he did to Toph, I don't think we have a choice. He's crafty, but we'll find a way to capture him. Maybe just invite him back here. He's already offered himself up as a prisoner once. Yeah, get him to come back and say he'll be our prisoner, then we'll jump him and really make him our prisoner. He'll never suspect it!   You are a master of surprise, Sokka ... Ahhh, that's the stuff. Now I know how the rest of you guys feel. Not being able to see with your feet stinks.  Stop! I don't want you hunting the Avatar anymore! The mission is off. I'm ordering you to stop. If you keep attacking, I won't pay you! All right, I'll pay you double to stop! He's going to blast this whole place right off the cliff side! I can't step out to waterbend at him without being blown up and I can't get a good enough angle on him from down here.  I know how to get an angle on him! All right buddy, don't fail me now!  Yeah, boomerang! Awww, boomerang ... I can't believe I'm saying this, but ... thanks, Zuko. Hey, what about me? I did the boomerang thing. Listen, I know I didn't explain myself very well yesterday, I've been through a lot in the last few years, and it's been hard. But I'm realizing that I had to go through all those things to learn the truth. I thought I had lost my honor, and that somehow my father could return it to me. But I know now that no one can give you your honor. It's something you earn for yourself, by choosing to do what's right. All I want to do now is play my part in ending this war, and I know my destiny is to help you restore balance to the world. I'm sorry for what I did to you. It was an accident. Fire can be dangerous and wild, so as a firebender, I need to be more careful and control my bending, so I don't hurt people unintentionally.  I think you are supposed to be my firebending teacher. When I first tried to learn firebending, I burned Katara, and after that, I never wanted to firebend again. But now I know you understand how easy it is to hurt the people you love. I'd like you to teach me.   Thank you. I'm so happy you've accepted me into your group. Not so fast. I still have to ask my friends if it's okay with them. Toph, you're the one that Zuko burned. What do you think? Go ahead and let him join. It'll give me plenty of time to get back at him for burning my feet.  Sokka?  Hey, all I want is to defeat the Fire Lord. If you think this is the way to do it, then, I'm all for it.  Katara?  I'll go along with whatever you think is right.   I won't let you down! I promise! So, here you go, home sweet home, I guess, you know, for now. Unpack? Lunch, soon? Uhhh ... welcome aboard? Yeah. Okay, this is really, really weird. If I have to, I will spend every day of the rest of my life hunting the Avatar. I know it's my destiny to capture him.  You know Prince Zuko, destiny is a funny thing. You never know how things are going to work out. But if you keep an open mind, and an open heart, I promise you will find your own destiny someday. You might have everyone else here buying your ... transformation, but you and I both know you've struggled with doing the right thing in the past. So let me tell you something, right now. You make one step backward, one slip-up, give me one reason to think you might hurt Aang, and you won't have to worry about your destiny anymore. Because I'll make sure your destiny ends ... right then and there. Permanently.  Those clouds look so soft, don't they? Like you could just jump down and you'd land in a big, soft, cottony heap?  Maybe you should give it a try.  You're hilarious.  I'll try it! Yeah!  Turns out, clouds are made of water. Hey, what is that?  It's like a scar ...  Listen. It's so quiet. There's no life anywhere. Aang? Are you okay?  Fire Nation! Those evil savages make me sick! They have no respect for - Shhh!  What? I'm not allowed to be angry?  Why would anyone do this? How could I let this happen? Aang, you didn't let this happen. It has nothing to do with you.  Yes, it does. It's the Avatar's job to protect nature. But I don't know how to do my job. That's why we're going to the North Pole. To find you a teacher. Yeah. A waterbending teacher. But there's no one who can teach me how to be the Avatar. Monk Gyatso said that Avatar Roku would help me. The Avatar before you? He died over a hundred years ago; how are you supposed to talk to him? I don't know.  Uncle! It's time to leave! Where are you? Uncle Iroh!  Over here! Uncle? We need to move on. We're closing in on the Avatar's trail and I don't want to lose him. You look tired, Prince Zuko. Why don't you join me in these hot springs and soak away your troubles? My troubles cannot be soaked away. It's time to go! You should take your teacher's advice and relax a little. The temperature's just right. I heated it myself.  Enough! We need to leave now. Get out of the water! Very well!   On second thought, why don't you take another few minutes? But be back at the ship in a half-hour or I'm leaving without you!  Hey, Aang! You ready to be cheered up?  No. Ow! Hey, how is that cheering me up?  Cheered me up. Ow. Yeah, I probably deserved that. These acorns are everywhere, Aang. That means the forest will grow back! Every one of these will be a tall oak tree someday, and all the birds and animals that lived here will come back.  Thanks, Katara. Hey, who are you? When I saw the flying bison, I thought it was impossible! But, those markings ... are you the Avatar, child? My village desperately needs your help! This young person is the Avatar! So, the rumors of your return are true! It is the greatest honor of a lifetime to be in your presence. Nice to meet you too! So ... is there something I can help you with? I'm not sure ... Our village is in crisis, he's our only hope! For the last few days at sunset, a spirit monster comes and attacks our village. He is Hei Bai, the black and white spirit. Why is it attacking you? We do not know, but each of the last three nights, he has abducted one of our own. We are especially fearful because the winter solstice draws near. What happens then? As the solstice approaches, the natural world and the Spirit World grow closer and closer until the line between them is blurred completely. Hei Bai is already causing devastation and destruction. Once the solstice is here, there's no telling what will happen. So, what do you want me to do, exactly? Who better to resolve a crisis between our world and the Spirit World than the Avatar himself? You are the great bridge between man and spirits. Right ... that's me. Hey great bridge guy, could I talk to you over here for a second? Aang, you seem a little unsure about all of this. Yeah, that might be because I don't know anything at all about the Spirit World. It's not like there's someone to teach me this stuff! So ... can you help these people? I have to try, don't I? Maybe whatever I have to do will just ... come to me.   I think you can do it, Aang.  Yeah. We're all going to get eaten by a spirit monster. Who's there? A meadow vole! I should have known. You startled me, little one. It seems I dozed off and missed my nephew's deadline, but it was a very sweet nap.  He's a Fire Nation soldier. He's no ordinary soldier. This is the Fire Lord's brother, the Dragon of the West. The once-great General Iroh, but now, he's our prisoner.  Hello, Spirit? Can you hear me? This is the Avatar speaking. I'm here to try to help stuff. This isn't right. We can't sit here and cower while Aang waits for some monster to show up. If anyone can save us, he can. He still shouldn't have to face this alone. The sun has set. Where are you, Hei Bai? Well ... spirit ... uhhh ... I hereby ask you to please leave this village in peace. Okay ... well ... I guess that's settled, then. You must be the Hei Bai spirit. My name is– My name's Aang! I'm the Avatar and I would like to help. Hey, wait up! Uhhh ... The Avatar's methods are ... unusual. It doesn't seem too interested in what he's saying. Maybe we should go help him. No. Only the Avatar stands a chance against the Hei Bai. Aang will figure out the right thing to do, Sokka.  Please, would you stop destroying things and listen? I'm trying to do my job as spirit bridge! Excuse me, would you please turn around? I command you to turn around now! That's it. He needs help.  Sokka, wait!   It's not safe! Hei Bai, over here!  Sokka, go back! We'll fight him together, Aang. I don't want to fight him unless I–   Sokka!  Uncle! Uncle, where are you? Sir, maybe he thought you left without him. Something's not right here. That pile of rocks. It looks like there's been a landslide, sir. Land doesn't slide uphill. Those rocks didn't move naturally. My uncle's been captured by earthbenders! Aang! Over here! Help! Hang on, Sokka! Sokka! I failed. Where are you taking me? We're taking you to face justice. Right, but where, specifically? A place you're quite familiar with, actually. You once laid siege to it for 600 days, but it would not yield to you. Ah, the great city of Ba Sing Se. It was greater than you were, apparently. I acknowledge my defeat at Ba Sing Se. After 600 days away from home, my men were tired, and I was tired. And I'm still tired. I'm sure they'll be back. I know.  You should get some rest. Everything's going to be okay ...  Your brother is in good hands. I would be shocked if the Avatar returned without him.  Katara? Katara, I lost him. The sun is rising. Perhaps he will return soon.  What? No, I'm right here! I'm in the Spirit World!  Yeah, that's Uncle Iroh.  I'll figure this out, Katara. I promise. Like they said, I'm the bridge between the worlds, right? All I have to do is ... figure out what I have to do. But once I do that, no problem. Appa! Hey buddy, I'm right here! But, I guess you can't see me either. It's okay, Appa, don't worry. I'm sure they're on their way back. I bet they even found you a bunch of moon peaches for a treat.  What am I supposed to do? Avatar Roku, how can I talk to you? Sokka? That's definitely not Sokka. What? I can't airbend in the Spirit World. You don't know where Sokka is, do you? You're Avatar Roku's animal guide! Like Appa is to me! I need to save my friend and I don't know how! Is there some way for me to talk to Roku? I'll be back, Katara. Take me to Roku!  What's the problem? Nothing. Actually, there is a bit of a problem. My old joints are sore and aching, and these shackles are too loose. Too loose? That's right. The cuffs move and jangle around and bump my wrists. It would help me if you tighten them so they wouldn't shake around so much. Very well. Corporal, tighten the prisoner's handcuffs. Hey, what are you doing? I don't understand, this is just a statue of Roku. Is that what Roku wants to talk to me about? A comet? When can I talk to him? It's a calendar, and the light will reach Roku on the solstice! So, that's when I'll be able to speak to Roku? But I can't wait that long! I need to save Sokka now!  He's too dangerous, Captain! We just can't just carry him to the Capital! We have to do something now! I agree. He must be dealt with immediately and severely. It's no use, Appa. I don't seem them anywhere. Our best hope is to go back to the village and wait.  The Avatar! Whoa! You're back! Where's Sokka? I'm not sure ... These dangerous hands must be crushed.  Excellent form, Prince Zuko. You taught me well. Surrender yourselves. It's five against two. You're clearly outnumbered. Yeah, that's true, but you are clearly outmatched. Now would you please put on some clothes? Aang, what are you doing?! Run! You're the spirit of this forest! Now I understand. You're upset and angry because your home was burned down. When I saw the forest had burned, I was sad and upset, but my friend gave me hope that the forest would grow back.  Sokka!  What happened? You were trapped in the Spirit World for 24 hours! How are you feeling? Like I seriously need to use the bathroom.  Thank you, Avatar. If only there were a way to repay you for what you've done. You could give us some supplies, and some money. Sokka! What? We need stuff. It would be an honor to help you prepare for your journey. I'm so proud of you, Aang. You figured out what to do, all on your own. Actually, I did have a little help and there's something else. What is it? I need to talk to Roku and I think I found a way to contact his spirit. That's great! Creepy, but great. There's a temple on a crescent-shaped island and if I go there on the solstice, I'll be able to speak with him. But the solstice is tomorrow! Yeah, and there's one more problem. The island is in the Fire Nation.  Let's go, Appa! Come on, boy! Look I'm sorry, but Katara and Sokka aren't coming to the Fire Nation with us. If they got hurt, I'd never forgive myself. So get your big butt off the ground and let's go!  I think his big butt is trying to tell ya something.  Please don't go Aang. The world can't afford to lose you to the Fire Nation. Neither can I.  But I have to talk to Avatar Roku to find out what my vision means! I need to get to the Fire Temple before the sun sets on the solstice. That's today! We're not letting you go into the Fire Nation, Aang.  At least, not without your friends. We got your back. Ew! It's a long journey to the Crescent Island. You'll have to fly fast to have any chance of making it before sundown. Good luck. Thank you for your-  Go!  Having trouble sleeping? Seen the Avatar lately? Come on boy, we've got a long way to go. Faster!  Sailing into Fire Nation waters ... Of all the foolish things you've done in your sixteen years, Prince Zuko, this is the most foolish! I have no choice, Uncle.  Have you completely forgotten that the Fire Lord ? What if you're caught?  I'm chasing the Avatar! My father will understand why I am returning home! You give him too much credit. My brother is not the understanding type!  There they are. Helmsman! Full steam ahead!  Aang. We've got trouble!  Yeah! And it's gaining, fast!  Uh, really Prince Zuko, couldn't you shoot them down with something more fragrant?  On my mark! Fire!  Fireball! I'm on it!  We have to get out of Zuko's range, before he shoots another hot stinker at us! Can't you make Appa go any faster? Yeah. But there's just one little problem.  A blockade. Technically you are still in Earth Kingdom waters. Turn back now and they cannot arrest you. If we fly north, we can go around the Fire Nation ships and avoid the blockade! It's the only way. There's no time! This is exactly why I didn't want you to come! It's too dangerous! And that's exactly why we're here.  Let's run this blockade!  Appa, yip-yip!  He's not turning around! Please Prince Zuko! If the Fire Nation captures you, there is nothing I can do! Do not follow the Avatar.  I'm sorry, Uncle. Run the blockade!  The Avatar. And the banished prince. This must be my lucky day. Commander Zhao. What are your orders? Shoot the bison down, captain.  But there's a Fire Navy ship out there, sir! One of our own! What if it's hit? So be it. It belongs to a traitor. Ignite. Launch! Appa, are you okay?  Prince Zuko! The engines are damaged! We need to stop and make repairs!  Do not stop this ship. Launch!  Sokka!  Ready ...  Fire!  We made it!  We got into the Fire Nation. Great. Where do you think the Avatar is headed, sir? I'm not sure. But I bet a certain banished prince will know. We're on a collision course!  We can make it!  The boarding party is ready to apprehend Prince Zuko, sir.  Wait! Cut the engines, and let them pass. Sir?  There it is! The island where Roku's dragon took me.   You did it buddy. Nice flying.   Aww, you must be tired.  No! I'm good. Refreshed and ready to fight some firebenders!   I was talking to Appa.  Well ... I was talking to Momo.   I don't see any guards.  The Fire Nation must have abandoned the temple when Avatar Roku died. It's almost sundown. We better hurry!   Wait. I think I heard something.  We are the Fire Sages. Guardians of the temple of the Avatar. Great! I am the Avatar! We know.   I'll hold them off. Run! If the Avatar contacts Roku, there's no telling how powerful the boy will become! Split up and find him.  Follow me! Do you know where you're going?   Nope! Wrong way!   Come back! I don't want to fight you! I am a friend. Firebenders aren't our friends!   I know why you're here, Avatar.  You do? Yes. You wish to speak to Avatar Roku. I can take you to him.  How?  This way.  Find him.  Time is running out! Quickly!  What's he up to, Uncle? Why didn't Commander Zhao arrest me? Because he wants to follow you. He knows you'll lead him to the prize you're both after: the Avatar.  If Zhao wants to follow a trail of smoke, then that's exactly what I'll let him do.  Avatar Roku once called this temple his home. He formed these secret passages out of the magma. Did you know Avatar Roku? No. But my grandfather knew him. Many generations of Fire Sages guarded this Fire Temple long before me. We all have a strong spiritual connection to this place. Is that how you knew I was coming? A few weeks ago, an amazing thing occurred. The statue of Avatar Roku; its eyes began to glow! That's when we were at the Air Temple. Avatar Roku's eyes were glowing there, too! At that moment, we knew you had returned to the world. If this is the Avatar's temple, why did the sages attack me? Things have changed. In the past, the sages were loyal only to the Avatar. When Roku died, the sages eagerly awaited for the next Avatar to return. But he never came.  They were waiting for me.  Hey don't feel bad. You're only a hundred years late!  They lost hope the Avatar would ever return. When Fire Lord Sozin began the War, my grandfather and the other sages were forced to follow him. I never wanted to serve the Fire Lord. When I learned you were coming, I knew I would have to betray the other sages. Thank you for helping me.   We'll follow these stairs to the sanctuary. Once you're inside, wait for the light to hit Avatar Roku's statue. Only then will you be able to speak with him.  No!  Shyu, what's wrong? The sanctuary doors, they're closed!  Can't you just open them with firebending? Like you opened that other door? No. Only a fully realized Avatar is powerful enough to open this door alone. Otherwise, the sages must open this door together, with five simultaneous fire blasts.  Five fire blasts, huh? I think I can help you out. Uncle, keep heading north. Zhao will follow the smoke trail, while I use it as a cover.  This is a little trick I picked up from my father. I seal the lamp oil inside an animal skin casing, Shyu lights the oil soaked twine and, ta-da! Fake firebending!  You've really outdone yourself this time, Sokka. This might actually work.  The sages will hear the explosion, so as soon as they go off, you rush in!  It's almost sunset. Are you ready? Definitely.  They're still locked!  It didn't work.   Why, won't, it, open?!  Aang! Stop! There's nothing else we can do ...  I'm sorry I put you through all of this for nothing.  I don't get it. That firebending looked as strong as any firebending I've seen.  Sokka, you're a genius!  Wait. How is Sokka a genius? His plan didn't even work.  Come on Aang. Let her dream. You're right. Sokka's plan didn't work. But it looks like it did.  Did the definition of genius change over the last hundred years?   Come quickly! The Avatar has entered the sanctuary! How did he get in? I don't know. But look at the scorch marks! And down there!  He's inside! Open the doors, immediately! Before he contacts Avatar Roku! It's the Avatar's lemur. He must have crawled through the pipes! We've been tricked!  Now, Aang!  Aang! Now's your chance!  The Avatar's coming with me! Close the doors! Quickly!  Go!  He made it!  The light hits the statue and I talk to Roku. So why isn't anything happening?  Why isn't it working? It's sealed shut! It must have been the light. Avatar Roku doesn't want us inside.  Why isn't anything happening? I don't know what I'm doing! All I know is airbending! Please Avatar Roku, talk to me! It's good to see you Aang. What took you so long?   Why did you help the Avatar?  Because it was once the sages' duty. It is still our duty.  What a moving and heartfelt performance. I'm certain the Fire Lord will understand, when you explain why you betrayed him.  Commander Zhao. And Prince Zuko. It was a noble effort, but your little smokescreen didn't work. Two traitors in one day, the Fire Lord will be pleased.  You're too late, Zhao! The Avatar's inside and the doors are sealed. No matter. Sooner or later, he has to come out.  I have something very important to tell you, Aang. That is why, when you were in the Spirit World, I sent my dragon to find you.  Is it about that vision? The one of the comet? Yes. What does it mean? One hundred years ago, Fire Lord Sozin used that comet to begin the War. He and his firebending army harnessed its incredible power, and dealt a deadly first strike against the other nations.  So the comet made them stronger?  Yes. Stronger than you could even imagine.  But that happened a hundred years ago. What does the comet have to do with the War now? Listen carefully. Sozin's Comet will return by the end of this summer, and Fire Lord Ozai will use its power to finish the War, once and for all. If he succeeds, even the Avatar won't be able to restore balance to the world. Aang. You must defeat the Fire Lord, before the comet arrives.  But I haven't even started learning waterbending! Not to mention earth and fire! Mastering the elements takes years of discipline and practice. But if the world is to survive, you must do it by summer's end.  When those doors open, unleash all your firepower!  How's Aang gonna make it out of this?  How are we gonna make it out of this?  What if I can't master all the elements in time? What if I fail? I know you can do it Aang. For you have done it before. The solstice is ending. We must go our separate ways, for now. But I won't be able to come back to the temple. What if I have questions? How will I talk to you? I am a part of you. When you need to talk to me again, you will find a way. A great danger awaits you at the temple. I can help you face the threat. But only if you are ready.  I'm ready. Ready ...   No! Aang! Fire!   Avatar Roku ...  Avatar Roku is going to destroy the temple! We have to get out of here! Not without Aang!  We got your back.  Thanks. Where's Shyu? [ ] I don't know.  No Prince, no Avatar! Apparently, the only thing I do have is five traitors!  But Commander! Only Shyu helped the Avatar.  Save your stories for the Fire Lord. As far as I'm concerned, you are all guilty! Take them to the prison hold! Come on, spidersnake eyes! Ha! Ha! Yeah! Could I get some water, a bag of feed and something hot to eat?  Not enough here for a hot meal. I can get you two bags of feed. Ow! Hey! You throwing eggs at us, stranger? No. You see who did throw it?  No. That your favorite word, no? Egg had to come from somewhere.  Maybe a chicken flew over. Thanks for your contribution. The army appreciates your support. You better leave town. Penalty for stayin's a lot steeper than you can afford, stranger. Trust me.  Those soldiers are supposed to protect us from the Fire Nation. But they're just a bunch of thugs. Thanks for not ratting me out! I'll take you to my house and feed your ostrich horse for you. Come on, I owe you!  No one can ever sneak up on us. No kidding. You a friend of Lee's? This guy just stood up to the soldiers! By the end, he practically had them running away! Does this guy have a name?  I'm ... uh ...  He doesn't have to say who he is if he doesn't want to, Sela. Anyone who can hold his own against those bully soldiers is welcome here. Those men should be ashamed to wear Earth Kingdom uniforms. The real soldiers are off fighting the War, like Lee's big brother Sensu. Supper's going to be ready soon. Would you like to stay? I can't. I should be moving on.  Gansu could use some help on the barn. Why don't you two work for a while, and then we'll eat. You don't seem like you're from around here.  Mm-mm. Where are you from then?  Far away. Ohhh. Where are you going? Lee, give it a rest. Stop asking the man personal questions, got it?  Yes. So how'd you get that scar? It's not nice to bother people about things they might not want to talk about. A man's past is his business. Hey Mom, want to see how Azula feeds turtle ducks?  Zuko! Why would you do that? Ow! Ow ow! Ouch!  Stupid turtle duck. Why she'd do that? Zuko. That's what moms are like. If you mess with their babies, , they're gonna bite you back!  Ugh! Azula!  Watch this! Mom! Can you make Zuko play with us? We need equal teams to play a game! I am not cart-wheeling. You won't have to. Cart-wheeling's not a game, dum-dum. I don't care. I don't want to play with you! We are brother and sister. It's important for us to spend time together! Don't you think so, Mom?   Yes, darling, I think it's a good idea to play with your sister. Go on now, just for a little while.   Here's the way it goes. Now what you do is, try to knock the apple off the other person's head, like this.   See, I told you it would work! Aww, they're so cute together! You two are such ... ugh! I was just coming to get you. Uncle Iroh sent us a letter from the war-front. You're soaking wet?  Girls are crazy!  If the city is as magnificent as its wall, Ba Sing Se must be something to behold. I hope you all may see it someday, if we don't burn it to the ground first!  Until then, enjoy these gifts. For Zuko, a pearl dagger from the general who surrendered when we broke through the Outer Wall. Note the inscription and the superior craftsmanship.  Never give up without a fight. And for Azula, a new friend. She wears the latest fashion for Earth Kingdom girls. If Uncle doesn't make it back from war, then Dad will be next in line for Fire Lord, wouldn't he? Azula, we don't speak that way. It would be awful if Uncle Iroh didn't return. And besides, Fire Lord Azulon is a picture of health. How would you like it if cousin Lu Ten wanted Dad to die? I still think our dad would make a much better Fire Lord than His Royal Tea-Loving Kookiness.  You're holding them wrong. Keep in mind, these are dual swords. Two halves of a single weapon. Don't think of them as separate, 'cause they're not. They're just two different parts of the same whole. I think you'd really like my brother Sensu. He used to show me stuff like this all the time.  Here. This ought to get you through a few meals. What do you think they want? Trouble. What do you want, Gow? Just thought someone ought to tell you that your son's battalion got captured. You boys hear what the Fire Nation did with their last group of Earth Kingdom prisoners? Dressed 'em up in Fire Nation uniforms and put 'em on the front line unarmed, the way I heard it. Then they just watched.  You watch your mouth! Why bother rooting around in the mud with these pigs? Iroh has lost his son. Your cousin Lu Ten did not survive the battle. What's going to happen to my brother? I'm going to the front. I'm going to find Sensu and bring him back. When my dad goes ... will you stay? No. I need to move on. Here. I want you to have this. Read the inscription.  Made in Earth Kingdom. The other one. Never give up without a fight. You waste all your time playing with knives. You're not even good! Put an apple on your head and we'll find out how good I am! By the way, Uncle's coming home. Does that mean ... we won the War? No, it means Uncle's a quitter and a loser. What are you talking about? Uncle's not a quitter! Oh yes he is! He found out his son died and he just fell apart! A real general would stay and burn Ba Sing Se to the ground, not lose the battle and come home crying. How do you know what he should do? He's probably just sad his only kid is gone. Forever. Your father has requested an audience with Fire Lord Azulon. Best clothes, hurry up!  Fire Lord Azulon ... can't you just call him 'Grandfather'? He's not exactly the powerful Fire Lord he used to be. Someone will probably end up taking his place soon.  Young lady! Not another word! What is wrong with that child? And how was it Great-Grandfather Sozin managed to win the Battle of Han Tui?  Great-Grandfather won ... because ... Because even though his army was outnumbered, he cleverly calculated his advantages. The enemy was downwind and there was a drought. Their defenses burned to a crisp in minutes. Correct, my dear. Now, would you show Grandfather the new moves you demonstrated to me? She's a true prodigy! Just like her grandfather for whom she's named.  You'll never catch up ...  I'd like to demonstrate what I've been learning. I failed. No. I loved watching you. That's who you are, Zuko. Someone who keeps fighting even though it's hard. Prince Ozai, why are you wasting my time with this pomp? Just tell me what you want. Everyone else, go! What are you -? Shh! Father, you must have realized as I have, that with Lu Ten gone, Iroh's bloodline has ended. After his son's death, my brother abandoned the siege at Ba Sing Se, and who knows when he will return home. But I am here, Father, and my children are alive. Say what it is you want! Father, revoke Iroh's birthright. I am your humble servant, here to serve you and our nation. Use me. You dare suggest I betray Iroh? My first born? Directly after the demise of his only beloved son? I think Iroh has suffered enough! But you ... your punishment has scarcely begun!  Dad's going to kill you! Really, he is. Ha-ha, Azula. Nice try. Fine, don't believe me. But I heard everything. Grandfather said Dad's punishment should fit his crime. "You must know the pain of losing a first-born son. By sacrificing your own!" Liar! I'm only telling you for your own good. I know! Maybe you could find a nice Earth Kingdom family to adopt you! Stop it! You're lying! Dad would never do that to me! Your father would never do what to you? What is going on here? I don't know ... It's time for a talk!  Azula always lies. Azula always lies. Azula always lies. You have to help! It's Lee – the thugs from town came back as soon as Gansu left. When they ordered us to give them food, Lee pulled a knife on them! I don't even know where he got a knife! Then they took him away. They told me if he's old enough to fight, he's old enough to join the army. I know we barely know you, but ...  I'll get your son back. Hey! There he is! I told you he'd come! Let the kid go.  Who do you think you are, telling us what to do? It doesn't matter who I am. But I know who you are. You're not soldiers; you're bullies. Freeloaders, abusing your power. Mostly over women and kids. You don't want Lee in your army – you're sick cowards messing with a family who's already lost one son to the war.  Are you gonna let this stranger stand there and insult you like this? Give him a left! A left! It's not a fistfight ... He's got a left sword, don't he? Look out! Behind you! ... Mom? Zuko, please, my love, listen to me. Everything I've done, I've done to protect you. Remember this, Zuko. No matter how things may seem to change, never forget who you are.  Get up ...! Who ... who are you? My name is Zuko. Son of Ursa and Fire Lord Ozai. Prince of the Fire Nation, and heir to the throne. Liar! I heard of you! You're not a prince, you're an outcast! His own father burned and disowned him! Not a step closer.  It's yours. You should have it. No! I hate you! Mom? Mom? Mom! Where's Mom? No one knows. Oh, and last night, Grandpa passed away. Not funny, Azula! You're sick. And I want my knife back, now.   Who's going to make me?  Where is she? Azulon. Fire Lord to our nation for twenty-three years. You were our fearless leader in the Battle of Garsai. Our matchless conqueror of the Hu Xin Provinces. You were father of Iroh, father of Ozai, husband of Ilah, now passed. Grandfather of Lu Ten, now passed. Grandfather of Zuko, and Azula. We lay you to rest. As was your dying wish, you are now succeeded by your second son. Hail Fire Lord Ozai!