There was once a woman who had three daughters, the eldest of whom
was called One-Eye, because she had only one eye in the middle of her
forehead, and the second, Two-Eyes, because she had two eyes like
other folks, and the youngest, Three-Eyes, because she had three
eyes, and her third eye was also in the center of her forehead.
However, as Two-Eyes saw just as other human beings did, her sisters
and her mother could not endure her.  They said to her, "You, with
your two eyes, are no better than the common people, you do not
belong to us." They pushed her about, and threw old clothes to her,
and gave her nothing to eat but what they left, and did everything
that they could to make her unhappy.

It came to pass that Two-Eyes had to go out into the fields and tend
the goat, but she was still quite hungry, because her sisters had
given her so little to eat.  So she sat down on a ridge and began to
weep, and so bitterly that two streams ran down from her eyes.  And
once when she looked up in her grief, a woman was standing beside
her, who said, "Why are you weeping, little Two-Eyes?" Two-Eyes
answered, "Have I not reason to weep, when I have two eyes like other
people, and my sisters and mother hate me for it, and push me from
one corner to another, throw old clothes to me, and give me nothing
to eat but the scraps they leave.  Today they have given me so little
that I am still quite hungry." Then the wise woman said, "Wipe away
your tears, Two-Eyes, and I will tell you something to stop your ever
suffering from hunger again.  Just say to your goat -
	 `Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
	 Cover the table with something to eat,'
and then a clean well-spread little table will stand before you with
the most delicious food upon it of which you may eat as much as you
are inclined for, and when you have had enough, and have no more need
of the little table, just say,
	 `Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
	 and take the table quite away,'
and then it will vanish again from your sight." Hereupon the wise
woman departed.  But Two-Eyes thought, "I must instantly make a
trial, and see if what she said is true, for I am far too hungry,"
and she said -
	 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
	 Cover the table with something to eat,"
and scarcely had she spoken the words than a little table, covered
with a white cloth, was standing there, and on it was a plate with a
knife and fork, and a silver spoon, and the most delicious food was
there also, warm and smoking as if it had just come out of the
kitchen.  Then Two-Eyes said the shortest prayer she knew, "Lord God,
be our guest forever, amen," and helped herself to some food, and
enjoyed it.  And when she was satisfied, she said, as the wise woman
had taught her -
	 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
	 And take the table quite away,"
and immediately the little table and everything on it was gone again.
That is a delightful way of keeping house, thought Two-Eyes, and was
quite glad and happy.

In the evening, when she went home with her goat, she found a small
earthenware dish with some food, which her sisters had set ready for
her, but she did not touch it.  Next day she again went out with her
goat, and left the few bits of broken bread which had been handed to
her, lying untouched.  The first and second time that she did this,
her sisters did not notice it at all, but as it happened every time,
they did observe it, and said, "There is something wrong about
Two-Eyes, she always leaves her food untasted, and she used to eat up
everything that was given her, she must have discovered other ways of
getting food." In order that they might learn the truth, they
resolved to send One-Eye with Two-Eyes when she went to drive her
goat to the pasture, to observe what Two-Eyes did when she was there,
and whether anyone brought her anything to eat and drink.

So when Two-Eyes set out the next time, One-Eye went to her and said,
"I will go with you to the pasture, and see that the goat is well
taken care of, and driven where there is food." But Two-Eyes knew
what was in One-Eye's mind, and drove the goat into high grass and
said, "Come, One-Eye, we will sit down, and I will sing something to
you." One-Eye sat down and was tired with the unaccustomed walk and
the heat of the sun, and Two-Eyes sang constantly -
	 "One-eye, are you waking?
	 One-eye, are you sleeping?"
Until One-Eye shut her one eye, and fell asleep, and as soon as
Two-Eyes saw that One-Eye was fast asleep, and could discover
nothing, she said,
	 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
	 Cover the table with something to eat,"
and seated herself at her table, and ate and drank until she was
satisfied, and then she again cried -
	 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
	 And take the table quite away,"
and in an instant all had vanished.  Two-Eyes now awakened One-Eye,
and said, "One-Eye, you want to take care of the goat, and go to
sleep while you are doing it, but in the meantime the goat might run
all over the world.  Come, let us go home again."

So they went home, and again Two-Eyes let her dish stand untouched,
and One-Eye could not tell her mother why she would not eat it, and
to excuse herself said, "I fell asleep when I was out." Next day the
mother said to Three-Eyes, this time you shall go and observe if
Two-Eyes eats anything when she is out, and if anyone fetches her
food and drink, for she must eat and drink in secret.  So Three-Eyes
went to Two-Eyes, and said, "I will go with you and see if the goat
is taken proper care of, and driven where there is food." But
Two-Eyes knew what was in Three-Eyes' mind, and drove the goat into
high grass and said, "We will sit down, and I will sing something to
you, Three-Eyes." Three-Eyes sat down and was tired with the walk and
with the heat of the sun, and Two-Eyes began the same song as before,
and sang -
	 "Three-Eyes, are you waking?"

But then, instead of singing -
	 "Three-Eyes, are you sleeping?"

As she ought to have done, she thoughtlessly sang -
	 "Two-Eyes, are you sleeping?"

And sang all the time -
	 "Three-Eyes, are you waking?
	 Two-Eyes, are you sleeping?"

Then two of the eyes which Three-Eyes had, shut and fell asleep, but
the third, as it had not been named in the song, did not sleep.  It
is true that three-eyes shut it, but only in her cunning, to pretend
it was asleep too, but it blinked, and could see everything very
well.  And when two-eyes thought that three-eyes was fast asleep, she
used her little charm -
	 "Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
	 Cover the table with something to eat,"
and ate and drank as much as her heart desired, and then ordered the
table to go away again,
	 "Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
	 And take the table quite away,"
and Three-Eyes had seen everything.  Then Two-Eyes came to her, waked
her and said, "Have you been asleep, Three-Eyes?  You keep watch very
well.  Come, we will go home." And when they got home, Two-Eyes again
did not eat, and Three-Eyes said to the mother, "Now, I know why that
haughty thing there does not eat. When she is out, she says to the
goat -
	 `Bleat, my little goat, bleat,
	 Cover the table with something to eat,'
and then a little table appears before her covered with the best of
food, much better than any we have here, and when she has eaten all
she wants, she says -
	 `Bleat, bleat, my little goat, I pray,
	 And take the table quite away,'
and all disappears.  I watched everything closely.  She put two of my
eyes to sleep by means of a charm, but luckily the one in my forehead
kept awake."

Then the envious mother cried, "Do you want to fare better than we
do?  The desire shall pass from you," and she fetched a butcher's
knife, and thrust it into the heart of the goat, which fell down
dead. When Two-Eyes saw that, she went out full of sadness, seated
herself on the ridge of grass at the edge of the field, and wept
bitter tears.  Suddenly the wise woman once more stood by her side,
and said, "Two-Eyes, why are you weeping?" "Have I not reason to
weep?" she answered.  "The goat which covered the table for me every
day when I spoke your charm, has been killed by my mother, and now I
shall again have to bear hunger and want." The wise woman said,
"Two-Eyes, I will give you a piece of good advice, ask your sisters
to give you the entrails of the slaughtered goat, and bury them in
the ground in front of the house, and your fortune will be made."
Then she vanished, and Two-Eyes went home and said to her sisters,
"Dear sisters, do give me some part of my goat, I don't wish for what
is good, but give me the entrails." Then they laughed and said, "If
that's all you want, you can have it." So Two-Eyes took the entrails
and buried them quietly in the evening, in front of the house-door,
as the wise woman had counseled her to do.

Next morning, when they all awoke, and went to the house-door, there
stood a strangely magnificent tree with leaves of silver, and fruit
of gold hanging among them, so that in all the wide world there was
nothing more beautiful or precious.  They did not know how the tree
could have come there during the night, but Two-Eyes saw that it had
grown up out of the entrails of the goat, for it was standing on the
exact spot where she had buried them.  Then the mother said to
One-Eye, "Climb up, my child, and gather some of the fruit of the
tree for us." One-eye climbed up, but when she was about to get hold
of one of the golden apples, the branch escaped from her hands, and
that happened each time, so that she could not pluck a single apple,
let her do what she might.  Then said the mother, "Three-Eyes, you
climb up, you with your three eyes can look about you better than
One-Eye." One-Eye slipped down, and Three-Eyes climbed up.
Three-Eyes was not more skillful, and might try as she would, but the
golden apples always escaped her.

At length the mother grew impatient, and climbed up herself, but
could get hold of the fruit no better than One-Eye and Three-Eyes,
for she always clutched empty air.  Then said Two-Eyes, "Let me go
up, perhaps I may succeed better." The sisters cried, "You indeed,
with your two eyes, what can you do?" But Two-Eyes climbed up, and
the golden apples did not avoid her, but came into her hand of their
own accord, so that she could pluck them one after the other, and
brought a whole apronful down with her. The mother took them away
from her, and instead of treating poor Two-Eyes any better for this,
she and One-Eye and Three-Eyes were only envious, because Two-Eyes
alone had been able to get the fruit, and they treated her still more
cruelly.

It so befell that once when they were all standing together by the
tree, a young knight came up.  "Quick, Two-Eyes," cried the two
sisters, "creep under this, and don't disgrace us," and with all
speed they turned an empty barrel which was standing close by the
tree over poor Two-Eyes, and they swept the golden apples which she
had been gathering, under it too.  When the knight came nearer he was
a handsome lord, who stopped and admired the magnificent gold and
silver tree, and said to the two sisters, "To whom does this fine
tree belong?  Anyone who would bestow one branch of it on me might in
return for it ask whatsoever he desired." Then One-Eye and Three-Eyes
replied that the tree belonged to them, and that they would give him
a branch.  They both took great trouble, but they were not able to do
it, for the branches and fruit both moved away from them every time.
Then said the knight, "It is very strange that the tree should belong
to you, and that you should not have the power to break a piece off."
They again asserted that the tree was their property.

Whilst they were saying so, Two-Eyes rolled out a couple of golden
apples from under the barrel to the feet of the knight, for she was
vexed with One-Eye and Three-Eyes, for not speaking the truth.  When
the knight saw the apples he was astonished, and asked where they
came from.  One-Eye and Three-Eyes answered that they had another
sister, who was not allowed to show herself, for she had only two
eyes like any common person.  The knight, however, desired to see
her, and cried, "Two-Eyes, come forth." Then Two-Eyes, quite
comforted, came from beneath the barrel, and the knight was surprised
at her great beauty, and said, "You, Two-Eyes, can certainly break
off a branch from the tree for me." "Yes," replied Two-Eyes, "that I
certainly shall be able to do, for the tree belongs to me." And she
climbed up, and with the greatest ease broke off a branch with
beautiful silver leaves and golden fruit, and gave it to the knight.
Then said the knight, "Two-Eyes, what shall I give you for it?"
"Alas, answered two-eyes, "I suffer from hunger and thirst, grief and
want, from early morning till late night.  If you would take me with
you, and rescue me, I should be happy." So the knight lifted Two-Eyes
on to his horse, and took her home with him to his father's castle,
and there he gave her beautiful clothes, and meat and drink to her
heart's content, and as he loved her so much he married her, and the
wedding was solemnized with great rejoicing.

When Two-Eyes was thus carried away by the handsome knight, her two
sisters grudged her good fortune in downright earnest. "The wonderful
tree, however, still remains with us," thought they, "and even if we
can gather no fruit from it, still every one will stand still and
look at it, and come to us and admire it.  Who knows what good things
may be in store for us." But next morning, the tree had vanished, and
all their hopes were at an end.  And when Two-Eyes looked out of the
window of her own room, to her great delight it was standing in front
of it, and so it had followed her.

Two-Eyes lived a long time in happiness.  Once two poor women came to
her in her castle, and begged for alms.  She looked in their faces,
and recognized her sisters, One-Eye, and Three-Eyes, who had fallen
into such poverty that they had to wander about and beg their bread
from door to door.  Two-Eyes, however, made them welcome, and was
kind to them, and took care of them, so that they both with all their
hearts repented the evil that they had done their sister in their
youth.
