Well, Ali Baba had them forty thieves Scheherazade had a thousand tales But, master, you're in luck 'cause up your sleeves You got a brand of magic never fails You got some power in your corner now Some heavy ammunition in your camp You got some punch, pizazz, yahoo and how See all you gotta do is rub that lamp And I'll say Mr. Aladdin, sir What will your pleasure be? Let me take your order Jot it down You ain't never had a friend like me Life is your[01;31m[K rest[m[Kaurant And I'm your maitre d' Come on whisper what it is you want You ain't never had a friend like me Yes sir, we pride ourselves on service You're the boss The king, the shah Say what you wish It's yours! True dish How about a little more baklava? Have some of column "A" Try all of column "B" I'm in the mood to help you, dude You ain't never had a friend like me Can your friends do this Can your friends do that Can your friends pull this out their little hat Can your friends go, poof Hey, looky here Can your friends go, Abracadabra, let her rip And then make the sucker disappear So don't you sit there slack-jawed, buggy-eyed I'm here to answer all your midnight prayers You got me bona fide certified You got a genie for your charge d'affaires I got a powerful urge to help you out So what's your wish? I really wanna know You got a list that's three miles long, no doubt Well, all you gotta do is rub like so Mr. Aladdin, sir, have a wish or two or three I'm on the job, you big nabob You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never had a friend like me You ain't never had a friend like me!
Here I go, woo! Back up! Watch out! You done wound me up 'Bout to show you what I'm working with Well, Ali Baba, he had them forty thieves Scheherazade had a thousand tales But, master, you're in luck because up your sleeves You got a brand of magic never fails You got some power in your corner now Heavy ammunition in your camp You got some punch, pizazz, yahoo and how All you gotta do is rub that lamp And then I'll say Mr. - (man, what's your name) Whatever, what will your pleasure be Let me take your order I'll jot it down You ain't never had a friend like me Life is your[01;31m[K rest[m[Kaurant And I'm your maitre d' Come whisper to me whatever it is you want You ain't never had a friend like me We pride ourselves on service You the boss The king, the shah Say what you wish It's yours! True dish How about a little more baklava? Have some of column "A" Try all of column "B" I'm in the mood to help you, dude You ain't never had a friend like me Oh, it's the big part Watch out, it's the big part, oh Can your friends do this? Can your friends do that? Can your friends pull this outta of their little hat? Can your friends go - I'm the genie of the lamp I can sing, rap, dance if you give me a chance, oh Don't sit there buggy-eyed I'm here to answer all your midday prayers You got me bona fide certified Got a genie for your charge d'affaires I got a powerful urge to help you out So what's your wish? I really wanna know You got a list that's three miles long, no doubt All you gotta do is rub like so Mr. (Aladdin), yes, one wish or two or three Well, I'm on the job, you big nabob You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never had a friend, never had a friend You ain't never (ever) Had a (had a) Friend (friend) Like (like) me You ain't never had a friend like me
I must admit, your parlor tricks are amusing I bet you've got a bunny under your hat Now here's your chance to get the best of me Hope your hand is hot C'mon, clown, let's see what you've got You try to slam me with your hardest stuff But your double whammy isn't up to snuff I'll set the record straight You're simply out of date You're only second rate! You think your cat's a meanie, but your tiger's tame You've got a lot to learn about the genie game So for your education I'll reiterate You're only second rate! Men cower at the power in my pinky My thumb is number one on every list But if you're not convinced that I'm invincible Put me to the test I'd love to lay this rivalry to[01;31m[K rest[m[K Go ahead and zap me with the big surprise Snap me in a trap, cut me down to size I'll make a great escape It's just a piece of cake You're only second rate! You know, your hocus-pocus isn't tough enough And your mumbo-jumbo doesn't measure up Let me pontificate upon your sorry state You're only second rate! Zaba-caba-dabra! Granny's gonna grab ya! Alakazam-da-mus And this thing's bigger than the both of us So spare me your tremendous scare You look horrendous in your underwear And I can hardly wait to discombobulate I'll send ya back and packing in a shipping crate You'd make a better living with a spinning plate You're only second rate!
