<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">

<html>
<head>

        <title>The Howard Miller Show: Guest: Liberace</title>

<script async src='/cdn-cgi/bm/cv/669835187/api.js'></script></head>

<body>

<h1>Guest: Liberace</h1><pre>The Howard Miller Show
Guest: Liberace 
Oct 29 1955


<u>Participants</u>:
ANNOUNCER
HOWARD MILLER, host
LIBERACE



ANNOUNCER: Wrigley's Spearmint Gum presents "The Howard Miller Show." 

MUSIC: THEME ... THEN IN BG, OUT BEHIND MILLER--

ANNOUNCER: And now here with music on records is Howard Miller. 

MILLER: Thank you very much, Eddie Joyce. Good morning, everyone. This <u>is</u> 
Howard Miller with a delightful and a wonderful surprise for you because in 
just a moment or so we're gonna meet one of our dearest friends in show 
business and a gentleman who rightfully can lay claim to the title of the 
number one man in show business today, as a matter of fact, the number one 
show business personality. His name, of course, as you know from publicity 
yesterday, is Liberace. And waiting there in his suite in the Ambassador Hotel 
is Liberace himself to talk to you about not only his record career and his 
television career, but his fabulous new success, a fine Warner Brothers 
picture starring Liberace and called "Sincerely Yours," which has its world 
premiere across the nation on this coming weekend.

However, before we travel over to the world-famed Ambassador Hotel, let me 
mention just a word about Wrigley's Spearmint Chewing Gum. You know, of all 
the products that the average announcer gets to talk about to his friends 
across the nation, I don't think any announcer has been more proud or more 
pleased or privileged to be able to boast about a product that he advertises 
as much as I can about Wrigley's Spearmint. Of all the products ever made -- 
anywhere -- there is none finer, none more wholesome, refreshing, or delicious 
than Wrigley's Spearmint Chewing Gum. Now remember: Halloween just two days 
away. And for you mamas all over the nation, when the kids come callin' 
"tricks or treats," remember there's nothing finer you can feed those little 
tummies of the little kids all over the nation than Wrigley's Spearmint. So 
you buy it by the box today and have it ready for the big "tricks or treats" 
celebration day after tomorrow. But remember to have the best: Wrigley's 
Spearmint Chewing Gum. There's nothing finer. 

Well, now let's go over to this world-famous hostelry, the Ambassador Hotel on 
the near north side in the bohemian section of Chicago, to talk to this pal of 
ours -- and, gee, I'm so very proud that he <u>is</u> my friend -- Liberace. Lee, 
welcome to Chicago.

LIBERACE: Thank you, Howard. It's just wonderful being here and having this 
opportunity to talk to you and your many friend-listeners. 

MILLER: Well, they're friends of yours, too, Lee, because we're being heard 
even in your home community of Milwaukee right now; we're being heard in your 
chosen land now, California, because out there, of course, it's 8:45, but 
maybe mother's listening, do you suppose? 

LIBERACE: Well, I think she might be; very likely, because she's an early 
riser. 

MILLER: I know she is. Lee, so many wonderful things have happened to you 
since you left the Middle West to take up this great career of yours out on 
the west coast of California, but I know that, through it all, you've never 
lost one ounce of humility and you must feel very kindly to the American 
people for their great acceptance of you.

LIBERACE: Yes, I feel very privileged that they have chosen me, er, to enjoy 
this coveted place in show business that they have placed me in, and I'm very, 
very grateful to all of them.

MILLER: Well, you've deserved it, so it's been of mutual benefit to both the 
public and to yourself. Am I wrong in referring to you now as Lee? I think, 
legally, no longer is Lee a part of your name, is it? 

LIBERACE: Well, Lee has become a rather popular nickname that was given to me 
by people early in my career who found Liberace too big of a mouthful. 

MILLER: (CHUCKLES) 

LIBERACE: And the Lee kind of grew out of the fact that people started to 
pronounce my name-- They'd say "Leeeee---berrrr"-- You know--

MILLER: Yeah.

LIBERACE: --and they never got past the Lee. (CHUCKLES) 

MILLER: Oh, I see. But Lee was never really a name as such; it was just a 
nickname then, taken from Liberace.

LIBERACE: That's right.

MILLER: Well, what was your formal and legal name as a small boy up in 
Milwaukee, Lib?

LIBERACE: Well, I'll tell you, Howard, it was the Polish equivalent of 
Walter--

MILLER: Uh huh.

LIBERACE: --and most of my youthful friends in Milwaukee will remember me as - 
as Walter. And then my middle name was Valentino, and then my family name was 
Liberace. 

MILLER: Yes. How would you pronounce that in the native tongue? 

LIBERACE: Well--

MILLER: Was it pronounced as Liberace? 

LIBERACE: Oh, yes. It's, uh, it's almost the Italian pronunciation. In 
Italian, you roll the "r" a little bit. You say "Libe<u>r</u>ace."

MILLER: "Libe<u>r</u>ace." 

LIBERACE: Uh huh.

MILLER: Wonderful. All right now, Lee, after you left Milwaukee and went out 
into show business, what was actually your goal or your ambition? I'm sure 
that you are a positive enough thinker that you had an ambition or a goal. Was 
it to play concert piano or was it to play pop music -- or was it to take the 
channel, the facet, that it <u>has</u> taken?

LIBERACE: Well, actually, I never really found my path in music and in the 
entertainment world until I reached the great majority of people that 
television was able to introduce me to, and up until then I'd enjoyed some 
wonderful audiences in concerts and in nightclubs and in theaters, but I never 
was quite sure I was doing the thing that was to be accepted by the greater 
majority until I went on television and found out that this mixture of playing 
the classics and popular, and talking and giving out with bits of my 
philosophy in life and-- That seemed to be the format that they wanted to hear 
from me and then I was sure I was on the right path. 

MILLER: Yes. I can sum it up and probably say it in a way that it won't place 
a burden on you, Lee, if I say that what you have done is come to the people 
with a pure and simple and a very wholesome and fine attitude about American 
life and that's, of course, why they love you so very much.

LIBERACE: Well, thank you, Howard. 

MILLER: Now, Lee, since you've gone out to California, of course, and made 
these tremendous strides in television and become a nationwide figure, an 
international figure, Warner Brothers have seen wise to sign you to, I 
presume, an exclusive movie pact, is that right?

LIBERACE: That's right.

MILLER: And the purpose of your being here in Chicago now and our opportunity 
of talking to you is because you're here for what will constitute the world 
premiere of this great motion picture "Sincerely Yours." 

LIBERACE: That's right, Howard. It's my first starring role in a motion 
picture; I had dabbled in pictures before, in musical shorts at RKO, and I 
made a picture with Shelley Winters some years ago where I had a small bit 
part, but this was a real challenge--

MILLER: Yes.

LIBERACE: --carrying the title role in a picture and - and being on the screen 
about ninety-five percent of the time of the entire picture. 

MILLER: Well, Lee, didn't you also contribute much to the storyline of 
"Sincerely Yours"? 

LIBERACE: Yes, Howard, I feel I did, because this being a new medium, everyone 
was a little doubtful about the type of picture that I should make for my 
first one.

MILLER: Yes.

LIBERACE: And originally it was thought that perhaps I should do a remake of 
something that had been done before. 

MILLER: I remember they considered "Golden Boy" for you, didn't they? 

LIBERACE: That was one of the considerations, and they also were thinking of 
"The Man Who Came to Dinner." And I listened to all the suggestions and then I 
said I'm not a story writer, but I do feel that whatever story I do on the 
screen should contain the qualities and the various facets of my work that 
have been accepted and recognized by the public and unless this first motion 
picture contained all these various things that they see in me personally and 
in my work, I felt it would be disappointing.

MILLER: Yes.

LIBERACE: And I think "Sincerely Yours" accomplished <u>that</u> purpose, if no 
other. I am very, very grateful that--

MILLER: (INTERRUPTS) Well, Lee, I can attest to the fact that you made this 
great contribution to the storyline because I have in my very proud 
possessions a napkin from the Pump Room of the Ambassador Hotel and I remember 
quite distinctly about a year-and-a-half ago you were visiting Chicago and you 
and I and a group of us, including your brother George and Seymour Heller, sat 
there and had dinner one night, and you and I sat at one end of the table and 
you plotted the entire storyline on a napkin and I said, "If you don't mind, 
I'd like to pick this up and carry it with me" and I still have it.

LIBERACE: Well, thank you, Howard, I-- 

MILLER: (INTERRUPTS) Now, Lee, I saw the picture the other day. I got just an 
early glimpse of it because we were going to use a film clip on our television 
show that we do here on CBS and I think it's a magnificent story. It's just a 
beautiful story. It contains all the warmth, the pathos, that anyone would 
want to see in any sort of a dramatic piece and I feel that the cast has done 
a great job in supporting you in this picture. Do you feel that way?

LIBERACE: Oh, I certainly do. I was surrounded by expert people, which gave me 
the feeling that I just had to come across for their sake.

MILLER: Yes. Who directed the picture, Lee? 

LIBERACE: A really wonderful guy named Gordon Douglas. 

MILLER: I suppose they're all very proud out there on the Warner Brothers lot 
to get the picture shot in such a fast order. It certainly was a minimum of 
shooting time, wasn't it?

LIBERACE: Well, there were absolutely no delays at all. No one had a sick day 
and the thing just moved along so rapidly. In fact, I finished it ahead of 
schedule which afforded me an opportunity for a couple of weeks vacation in 
France. 

MILLER: Well, I'm certain that Jack Warner and all the Warner Brother 
executives must have been very pleased because, of course, that meant a great 
saving of money to them. Now, Lee, you play a lot of music in the picture, 
don't you? 

LIBERACE: Yes, the picture is aimed at two different audiences. It's aimed at 
the American audience, which recognizes the fact that I play the piano and I'm 
an entertainer. 

MILLER: Yeah. 

LIBERACE: And then it is also aimed at a audience that eventually will be 
seeing me for the first time, like the European audience where they haven't 
become aware of my presence on television, and that sort of thing.

MILLER: Well, Lee, I want to take just a moment to commend it to the viewing 
enjoyment of people all over the nation. Now, here in the Middle West and, I 
presume, other places around the country-- We're also going to get the world 
premiere in other places this weekend. I want you to see it because you're 
going to just be amazed at the tremendous ability of this man Liberace now as 
a motion picture performer and truly taking a stature in this life as he has 
in the life of television and music. Lee, I wanna interrupt just long enough 
to play at least a portion of one of the fine Columbia records that you've 
made called "The Beer Barrel Polka" because I think it shows your tremendous 
versatility.

LIBERACE: Oh, thanks. It's one of the numbers in the picture.

MILLER: I know.

MUSIC: DURING ABOVE, FADE IN "THE BEER BARREL POLKA" BY LIBERACE ... RUNS OVER 
A MINUTE AND A HALF ... TO THE END OF RECORD

MILLER: The versatile and certainly very wonderful Liberace with "The Beer 
Barrel Polka." Lee, I know that you've got such a busy weekend here. The 
ladies -- of which they are, in number, something like five thousand -- are 
conducting a candlelight parade for you tonight from the Ambassador Hotel all 
over the city. This should be a real exciting thing. 

LIBERACE: Well, it'll be the first time I've ever had an experience of this 
sort. I think it's going to be thrilling and I can't wait for it to happen. 

MILLER: Well, if you think you're thrilled and nervous, imagine how the ladies 
feel. 

LIBERACE: (AMUSED) Well, that's great.

MILLER: (CHUCKLES) I want to take the opportunity, then, of thanking you for 
taking time from this tremendously busy schedule and being on our CBS Wrigley 
Spearmint Chewing Gum show. Thank you very much and we'll be seeing you on our 
television show tomorrow night, and the best of luck in your appearances at 
the Chicago Theatre all day tomorrow in connection with your picture. 

LIBERACE: Thanks a million, Howard, and God bless you and your listeners. 

MILLER: Thank you. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if Liberace didn't get through 
to you the same feeling of greatness that he always does to me, then it's 
because your speaker was turned way down and you couldn't listen, because here 
is one of the warm, magnificent people of show business whose contribution to 
all the ages is so great. And again I want to say thanks to a great performer 
and a great star -- Liberace. 

This is Howard Miller from Chicago on CBS, saying thank you very much. Please 
join me over the rest of this week and weekend in having Wrigley Spearmint 
Chewing Gum. I know that you'll like it. It's wholesome, delicious, and 
refreshing. We'll see you tomorrow, same time. Bye-bye, everyone. 

MUSIC: THEME .. THEN IN BG, UNTIL END

ANNOUNCER: You've just heard "The Howard Miller Show," with music on records, 
brought to you from Chicago by Wrigley's Spearmint Gum. Be sure and join 
Howard Miller tomorrow at this same time when his guests will be Mercury 
record company vice president Art Talmadge and his staff. 

This is the CBS Radio network.

</pre>
<script type="text/javascript">(function(){window['__CF$cv$params']={r:'62a898eaebd0031e',m:'45ad095884df58353e2aa080d082a1df740cce58-1614834618-1800-AYHgGBeK3luI1P7Q+1xDQOkj/X891iFxpWGNz4i/MfZ+czzBPuMYSD6aPTm3UMZL/p+Nhi4kMSHhaxJYcGgfZFv25AUTK6udAKXsSiZcfaREJjy7b9eLuqYwE2GHffgeAQ==',s:[0x61013831b4,0x60f6f489db],}})();</script></body>
</html>