<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">

<html>
<head>

        <title>Station WGN: Quin Ryan Describes the Conventions</title>

<script async src='/cdn-cgi/bm/cv/669835187/api.js'></script></head>

<body>
<h1>Quin Ryan Describes the Conventions</h1><pre>Station WGN
Quin Ryan Describes the Conventions
June 1928
_____________________________________________

[From <i>Business Speeches by Business Men,</i> compiled by William Phillips Sandford 
and Willard Hayes Yaeger (McGraw-Hill, 1930)]

<b>NEWS BROADCAST OF THE KANSAS CITY AND HOUSTON CONVENTIONS
QUIN A. RYAN</b>

<i>Mr. Ryan, Announcer for WGN, the Chicago Tribune radio station, broadcast oral 
descriptions from both of the nominating conventions of 1928. Compiled and 
reduced from his impromptu talks, the following article appeared in the 
<b>Extension Magazine.</b> It illustrates the narrative-descriptive news 
broadcast, a form of public speaking which has become of great importance as 
the radio has grown in popularity.</i>

<b>Kansas City</b>

So this is the hall in which the Democrats nominated Bryan in 1900 for the 
second time. It was razed by fire and rebuilt in sixty days, they say, just in 
time for the Fourth of July of that year. Looks smaller than the convening 
places of both parties the last few decades. And we, here on the speakers' 
platform, are located on the broad side of the hall. There are three radio 
announcers here to broadcast for three different radio systems--Graham McNamee 
and J. Andrew White, one on either end of the platform, and I'm almost in the 
center. I'm just an arm's length away from the small bridge that juts forward 
from the platform, on which the speaker of the moment stands behind a silver 
shelf of microphones.

We announcers are in the front row, at small tables. We have erected tiny 
glass cages a foot high to prevent our voices from carrying out over the heads 
of the newspapermen, who sit behind the shelves down in front of us. The lords 
of the convention, the members of the national committee, are arrayed behind 
us. This is part of the romance of broadcasting, that the reporter is assigned 
to a front seat at the great events of the nation.

Burning searchlights, like cannons on the balconies opposite, leer in our 
eyes. They flash on with the introduction of every new speaker. After the 
scores of cameramen have snapped their shutters and ground their film, the 
lights fade for a while. Out there are the thousand delegates, sprawled over 
yellow camp chairs and crowded in their allotted pens. State placards and 
"whoopee banners" aloft. Shirt sleeves and loud suspenders. Rust red necks and 
ice cream suits.

I was just thinking of what an odd figure a radio announcer and his apparatus 
would have cut in this hall twenty-eight years ago. In those days the farmer 
heard the news when his metropolitan newspaper was delivered by the rural 
mailman and his jogging horse two days later; today he sits at his radio horn 
and is closer to the speaker than the delegates in the convention hall. He 
hears the shouts and the music and the harangues, and an announcer's voice, 
like a Greek chorus, identifies them for him. There is another microphone 
there on the shelf before the speaker which is recording all his words on 
records while a movie camera simultaneously photographs the scene for the 
talking moving pictures. Sights and sounds--everything but odor--are being 
preserved for future generations.

Underneath this platform is a labyrinth of wires. Millions of words are being 
telegraphed from here this week; even photographs are being transmitted over 
the wires, that they may be printed in New York and 'Frisco this evening. 
Verily, the world does move!

Sloping and curved rows of spectators' seats all around the oval auditorium. 
High above, more galleries where spectators stand. Out in front, the aisles, 
with the white state standards. The mass of delegates swarms and mills about, 
and ever and anon the bluish searchlights make side-swipes over their heads. 
Delegates are peculiar people; they rarely listen to all the proceedings, they 
converse and move hither and yon; they come to these conventions and pay their 
own way, because most of them are either major or minor office-holders under 
the party standards in their own states; and they seem to have little to say 
about the eventual outcome of it all, or even in the daily business of it, in 
this hall or in the private conferences. Let's see, what conventions have 
there been when the delegates really acted on their own--there was Bryan 
stampeding the convention in 1896 with his Cross of Gold speech, and there was 
Teddy Roosevelt leading a rebellion in the Chicago conclave, when he started 
the Bull Moose party.

Party conventions, as they appear to this observer in the front row, have lost 
the spontaneity that was the essence of them in their origin. It has been 
indubitably decided even two days before the first whack of the gavel that 
Herbert Hoover is to be the nominee. This show might be called the fable of 
the Steamroller and the Elephant. The performance seems to be planned entirely 
behind closed doors and then acted here in the hall, according to a scenario. 
Even we announcers are given a schedule at the beginning of each session, 
stating the wording of the motions to be made and the names of those who will 
make them. The bargaining of propositions and planks goes on in railroad cars 
and hotel rooms, and state delegations are swung from one candidate to 
another, while the majority of the humble delegates are concerned only with 
finding a good restaurant or extra cots on which to lay their drowsy heads.

This is certainly a business-like procedure. An ideal chairman, Senator Moses, 
of New Hampshire--witty, quick, alert, and forceful. His predecessor, the 
temporary chairman, Senator Fess, of Ohio, was not so successful; he has not 
the voice, nor the manner, nor the figure for the job. The art of oratory 
seems to be on the decline in the conventions. Robust voices are no longer 
needed, for loud-speaking horns carry the voice to the far ends of the hall. 
In the past, the party's most sensational spell-binders have been called into 
action in the national conventions. Several times in these sessions the 
chairman has rapped for order because delegates on the floor were calling, 
"Louder." The gentleman who read the Republican platform, Senator Smoot, of 
Utah, could not be heard at all; even the radio listeners telegraphed to 
request him to step closer to the microphone. Very soon the political leaders 
are going to recognize the need of presenting in convention the orators who 
make the best radio speakers. The ears of the nation are cocked to this hall 
in Kansas City. President Coolidge, for instance, makes a fine radio talk, 
although he is not a good orator to the naked ear. The best speeches of the 
Republican convention were the fiery plea of young Senator LaFollette, 
presenting the report of the minority, and the mellow oration by the veteran 
Senator Borah, of Idaho, in opposition.

I know it is not merely the fact that I am in this profession that makes me 
realize what a powerful factor this radio is going to be in politics and in 
these conventions. Methinks they ought to hold their most important sessions 
at night--when they deliver the keynote speech, the reading of the party 
platform, and the nominating addresses. It is a medium greater than the press 
for getting over their messages to the voters--and at no cost. Months later, 
when they are campaigning, it will cost them thousands of dollars to link up a 
radio chain to catch the ears of the populace. But all the sessions, except 
this current one, have been scheduled for the daylight hours, when most of the 
voters are engaged in their offices or shops or on their farms. We predict 
that by the time 1932 rolls around both parties will have arranged their rules 
of procedure to hold all sessions at night.

Famous faces all around us, surprisingly like the cartoons we have seen of 
them. Here on the platform sits William M. Butler, chairman of the national 
committee, and "the man behind Coolidge," immobile as a sphinx through all the 
sessions. Postmaster General New, with a wide black hat. Secretary of Labor 
Davis and Secretary of War Davis. The mayor of Chicago and the mayor of San 
Francisco. Out in one of the boxes I spy, through my field glasses, Senator 
James A. Reed of Missouri, a Democrat; this is his home and he has been 
invited to a seat in the camp of the rival chieftains. But the person who 
claims the most attention through every session is Mrs. Alice Roosevelt 
Longworth, wife of the Speaker of the House--a bit mellower in her poise and 
beauty than when she was the toast of the White House, as the young daughter 
of "T. R."

Out there, forever bobbing up and down the aisles, I see the sunburned face of 
her brother, Col. Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., a member of the New York 
delegation. The celebrities down there in the press section are as many and as 
interesting as those among the delegations. H. L. Mencken, with the round, 
wide-eyed face of a boy, is hurrying to and fro, stopping occasionally to look 
blandly up at a speaker. The white-haired and smiling Kansas editor, William 
Allen White, sits sometimes in his delegate seat. O. O. McIntyre, the 
chronicler of daily New York doings in the newspapers, with that long, 
slender, and lined face, looking bored and wistful.

But right down here in the front row of the delegates' seats is the sight that 
most fascinates me. There, through all the hours, sits Andrew Mellon, 
Secretary of the Treasury, as though he were in church. A delicately carved, 
"poker" face; meek-eyed, white-haired, and white-mustached. He looks as 
quietly and intently at every speaker as a schoolboy listening to his first 
Fourth of July oration. Beside him is the governor of Pennsylvania, and next 
to him William S. Vare, of Philadelphia, who has been denied his seat in the 
Senate. Vare and Mellon are political enemies, but they enter the hall 
together every time. It is rumored that the conference between them, shortly 
after their arrival in Kansas City, brought about the swing of the deciding 
Pennsylvania votes to Hoover.

Chairman Moses rushes the business along. There is little pageantry. Even the 
city has only plain bunting, nothing garish. There are campaign headquarters 
everywhere--Lowden, Curtis, Hoover--and religious propagandists, seeking to 
inject theories and planks into the party platform, have open headquarters in 
the busiest hotels.

Now, in the evening, the nominating is to start. The clerk is reading the roll 
call of the states. The fuse is smoldering; the mob is straining at the leash. 
Very soon pandemonium is to break loose. Arizona yields to California. John 
McNabb, a fellow townsman of Herbert Hoover, in Palo Alto, is being 
introduced. McNabb mentions Hoover's name in the first paragraph of his 
nominating speech, and the ensuing demonstration lasts twenty-three minutes. 
The mention of Hoover's name again at the end of the nominating speech brings 
forth a din which lasts twenty-five minutes. Herbert Hoover is nominated on 
the first ballot.

<b>Houston</b>

Here we are again, at another Democratic session. The Democrats have heeded 
the enormous audience that the radio offers them after dark, and they are 
holding night sessions for the workaday millions to listen in. This was 
officially decided after a debate in the national committee meeting, in which 
Senator Glass, of Virginia, holding out against the night sessions, declared 
that radio is "mostly static," anyway.

An astounding town, Houston. A clean, rich city of skyscrapers and fine shops 
and boulevards. Intensely blue sky and white sunlight. But the heat of the day 
is like the fierce glow of brick ovens. This is the first Democratic 
convention held in the South since 1860; so they are staging a great carnival 
for the visitors. The quantity of streamers and bunting and flags is dazzling. 
There was a hurry and rush of business in Kansas City, but down here it's like 
a lark. The same hubbub and milling crowds, but gayer. Gay clothes, and 
bright. Men all in white. Linen suits. Women in festive summer garb. Hawkers 
galore, selling canes, pennants, buttons, miniature donkeys. State delegations 
here dress in character—western delegates in eight-gallon hats—every 
delegation seems to have brought a band—there is music on the air day and 
night. The Democrats seem to make more of a show of it.

This vast hall seats 25,000, twice as many as the auditorium at Kansas City. 
There are no side walls--all open to the breezes which have been blowing 
accomodatingly every day. All afternoon the cruel Texas sun has been boring 
its burning blasts through the flimsy wooden roof of this open air tabernacle, 
and we have sat here on the platform drenched and gasping. In a country where 
siestas and leisure periods are in order on such blistering days, the 
delegates on the wooden seats and the gaily dressed ladies in the boxes have 
continued to fan themselves and dry their brows. Now it is evening, but it is 
still warm in here. The boxes, all around the square building, make it look 
like a summer evening dress ball or a midsummer opera performance.

Same searchlights, same newspapermen, same cameras--but here the delegates are 
steaming in white suits or shirtsleeves. New figures on the platform around 
us. And slower procedure. Here, on this platform, all eyes are focused through 
every session on Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, sitting just behind me. An unending line 
of visitors files past her, to greet her and receive a smile from her round, 
pleasant face. She changes her costume with every session. This is the seventh 
change she has made. Current celebrities and "has-beens" move around the 
platform. Senator Pat Harrison, of Mississippi, with the face of an actor and 
the good nature of a clown; Josephus Daniels, resembling a caricature of 
himself when he was Secretary of the Navy; John W. Davis, who was the nominee 
four years ago; youthful-looking Jimmy Walker, Mayor of New York; Dan Moody, 
of Texas, the youngest governor in the States.

The 1,100 delegates are spread over the main floor, and the spectators bank 
the slopes. The other end of the hall, massed with people, is a city block 
distant.

There has been one demonstration this evening, by four state delegations, at 
the nomination of Senator George, of Georgia. The radio is going to be a lure 
to favorite sons. There will be many nominated merely for the publicity that 
the nation-wide radio chains will give them. Ah, well. Here is another cut-
and-dried story--the nomination of Governor Al Smith has been assured long 
before his name will be put to the convention. Half way down the hall, far 
over in one of the side boxes, his buxom wife is watching these proceedings. 
There are three bands competing with one another in this hall. One is a most 
blatant, but stirring outfit, called the Old Gray Mare band, in cowboy attire. 
There have been good speakers here, too, and bad. The perennial figure of 
Bryan is noticeably absent for the first time. The chairman, a quiet man--
kindly and strong featured--Senator Robinson, of Arkansas, is introducing 
Franklin D. Roosevelt, of New York. Roosevelt was once a vice-presidential 
nominee. In the convention four years ago he was wheeled in, in a chair. He 
suffers from infantile paralysis. Now he hobbles on a cane. He has the finest 
face in the hall. He starts to speak. The great clusters of horns hung like 
chandeliers down the length of the hall are carrying his voice to those 
listeners two hundred yards away.

Now he mentions the Governor of New York, and the lid is off!

Now the floor of the convention hall looks like the Kansas City floor at the 
first mention of Secretary Hoover's name, or like an enlarged photo of the 
famous wheat pit on one of its most rampant days. The enormous searchlights 
sweep over the hall, blinding us with their blue shafts. The thousands have 
leaped to their feet as though the building were on fire. The delegations 
snatch up their white standards and wave them like flagstaffs. Now they're 
starting to romp like college boys after a football victory. They are shouting 
and howling as they parade past us--Illinois, Iowa, Utah, Maine, California, 
Hawaii, Michigan, Connecticut, Ohio, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, Oregon, 
Nevada, and so on.

Cowbells and sirens and three bands playing. Here on the platform the folks 
are standing on their chairs. Some of the delegations remain coldly in their 
seats--Georgia, Missouri, Texas. The din surges louder and the procession is 
augmented. Somebody is toting a huge pasteboard replica of the Capitol dome, 
bearing the letters, "Al Smith." And the searchlights of the cameramen weave 
their way and sweep and sway around this noisy cauldron. Down the long, low, 
arched roof of this hall, the flags of all the states in the Union hang 
droopily and limply in the sweltering heat, while the thousand human jumping 
beans work themselves into a frenzy of excitement. All around the sides of the 
building the sweating hillsides of humanity are standing on tiptoe on their 
bare plank seats. The big lights glare impudently in our eyes. Down there they 
are waving hats and fans and state standards. They shout and whoop and strike 
one another on the back. Snake-dance lines of delegates are jostling forward 
through the aisles, flaunting over their heads the banners with the strange 
devices: North Dakota, Minnesota, Porto Rico, Arizona, District of Columbia, 
Washington, Indiana, and West Virginia. And the tumult of this demonstration 
is probably reverberating back over the plains to the north, and through the 
lonely swamp-lands and forests to the east and west, along the gulf.
</pre>
<script type="text/javascript">(function(){window['__CF$cv$params']={r:'62a8997b8dab25d5',m:'db8feac15a381275656de45e362e810b85cb36ac-1614834641-1800-AYa6niB5N52dqjy1xoit2Hbk38q5tpCa5ORIWyjfuFFpZncfwkd9mnPt3AycuBCsGUOQC3rHXirMYlqZ9fFlcD1O/G1wjcTSajewf/+klzw2AG9lyWTyi/Wu2LgHj4Li8GXrpWis7TBwjnvito5XG5DJcCi93IJkIeCFr3W7BmOY',s:[0x6f3f8fd586,0xa608685075],}})();</script></body>
</html>